What section is a short review of system architecture topics that you’ll need for system programming?
What is a new technology?
What is a suite of tools designed to make your programs more correct?
What is an effective tool to check for errors at runtime?
What is a tool from google that helps you detect race conditions in your code?
What program helps you track down errors by interactively debugging them?
What is a line of code where you want the execution to stop and give control back to the debugger?
What is a programming language that is running inside your terminal?
What is a wonderful tool provided by the llvm project?
What is a copy and paste operation that the compiler performs before compiling a program?
What is a pointer?
What is an operation that the kernel carries out?
What is the first parameter of a format string?
What is a little complicated in terms of buffering semantics?
What is a series of bytes delimited by a nul character?
What is a piece of contiguous memory?
What is a void?
What is a rapid fire section?
What is an operating system?
What is an instance of a computer program that may be running?
What is the ntiguous, expanding region of memory?
What is a powerful and dangerous tool?
What is a snippet of how to use system?
What is a blocking call?
What is an unwanted complexity?
What is a moving target in the survey?
What is a list of blocks where each block is either allocated or unallocated?
What is a worst-case linear time operation?
What is a slab allocator that serves different needs for the kernel slub?
What is a segregated list allocator with minimal splitting and coalescing?
What is a process?
What is the name of the thread that is called _exit?
What is a single instruction when compiled with -o2?
What section of code can only be executed by one thread at a time if the program is to function correctly?
What is a global variable and accessed by two threads?
What is a simple data structure?
What is an instruction supported by most modern architectures?
What is a semaphore that always waits before it posts?
What is inconsistent while push (and pop) is executing?
What is a busy loop?
What is a storage mechanism where contiguous memory is treated as if it is circular?
What is an incorrect implementation?
What is an incorrect implementation?
What is a classic synchronization problem?
What is a block of virtual memory?
What is a map from a number to a particular frame called?
What is a list of pointers that point to the next level of tables?
What is an interesting call because instead of tying each virtual address to a physical frame, it ties it to something else?
What is a trick of virtual memory of instead of mapping a page to a frame?
What is one of the big things that a file may be lazily allocated to memory?
What is shared anonymously?
What is a simple way to accomplish this?
What is a great example of a process that writes to append-only tables?
What is the scheduling algorithm called?
What is a thousand kilobytes?
What is a set of specifications put forward by the internet engineering task force that govern how implementers of a protocol have their program or circuit behave under specific circumstances?
What is tcp?
What is the socket_type?
What is a little overkill here?
What is google's binary protocol?
What is the last piece of important information?
What is an implementation of the file interface?
What is a block that stores pointers to more data blocks?
What is a common c programming bug?
What does the integrity of the file system assume?
What is the name of the read-only filesystem originally designed for optical storage media?
What is a per-process attribute that determines how a signal is handled after it is delivered?
What is a program that slowly prints a dot every second?
What is a temporary signal mask used during the execution of a signal handler?
What is a bug where instructions that otherwise wouldn’t be executed are speculatively executed?
What is a high-level proof of concept?
What is a better system for security?
What is a lightweight environment that shares resources and a kernel with a host machine?
What is an application that displays the output from the shell?
What is the other type of library?
What does the sentence set?
What is the name of the standard that is an alternative to pthreads?
What is a hardware microcontroller that analyzes how the operating system accesses files?
What is a constant size?
What is a system call that is exclusive the bsds and macos?
What is a large region of memory that is allocated by the system?
What is a bad idea for someone who dreams of using it?
What is a backdoor for everyone’s systems if programmed incorrectly?
What is a piece of code usually installed kernel-side that keeps track of almost anything that a user does?
