DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS

		Accounting Program Syllabus

								

		

		

		Accounting Program Syllabus



							General Information

							

							Course Title:  Introduction to Managerial Accounting			

Course Number:  ACC 203-01		

Semester: Fall 2021 (08/30/2020 - 12/15/2020) 			

Number of Credits: 3 		

Instructor Name: Yauheni Koraneu, CPA, CMA, MS in Finance and Accounting 		

Class Time: T/Th 9.30 am – 10.50 am EST

Office Hours: Mo/We 10:00 am – 01:30 pm

Tu/Th    02.00 pm – 05.00 pm		

Email:  yauheni.koraneu@gallaudet.edu			

VP Phone: (202) 935-6498		

Office Location: EMG Room 204



Catalog Description:

Management (or Managerial) Accounting comprises financial and nonfinancial information intended to meet internal users' needs. It involves the development and interpretation of accounting information intended to assist management in the operation of the business. Topics include financial statement analysis and the use of accounting information for planning and control, performance evaluation, and decision-making. The course will cover cost behavior, job order costing, process costing, cost-volume-profit relationship, relevant costing/benefits, budgeting, and activity-based costing.

Prerequisites: ACC 201 and BUS 181

Course Materials:

Introduction to Managerial Accounting: 8th edition, by Peter Brewer, Ray H. Garrison, and Eric W. Noreen; McGraw-Hill Irwin. All students are required to have access to the publisher’s online homework system “Connect” to receive credits for LearnSmart and selected online assignments.  Custom Loose-leaf text + Connect Access Code +eBook can be purchased at  campus bookstore OR online at: https://www.mheducation.com/highered/product/gen-combo-looseleaf-introduction-managerial-accounting-connect-ac-brewer/9781260259179.html




							Requirements and Grading

Bison Letter Grade Equivalencies:



The Department of Business grading system is:



93% and Above		A

90 – 92%			A-

87 - 89%			B+

83 - 86%			B

80 – 82%			B-

77 – 79%			C+

73 – 76%			C

70 – 72%			C-

67 – 69%			D+

60 – 66%			D

Below 60%		F



Major Assignments and Grading Policy:  

Grade Equivalencies:

Class Discussion

10%

Homework

10%

Project

10%

Quizzes

10%

Tests

50%

Final Exam

10%

All assignments should be completed on time scheduled according to the course schedule. The assignments that are not submitted after the assigned week count as zero. No student can be excused from missing assignments.



Types of Learning Activities



Textbook Reading

Each module is associated with an appropriate chapter of the textbook aided with the online resources provided by the publisher. This course is much more than memorization of procedures, formulas, and formats. Although we may use numerical examples, everything in the course is theory-driven. A thorough reading and rereading of the textbook are essential.

Homework/Project

Each module contains the exercises that should be completed using the Connect software provided by the publisher along with the textbook. This is essential for thorough mastery of financial accounting concepts and their applications. Failure to practice problem material usually results in the students being unable to efficiently work examination problems in the time allotted. There will be times when the homework challenges you. That is intentional. Part of your training to enter the professional accounting and business world is to be able to do something that is a challenge.

While homework can be taken with an unlimited attempt, there are only two attempts to complete the assignments for the project.

Quiz/Tests

There will be quizzes and tests for each module. They should be completed on time scheduled according to the course schedule. The quizzes/tests that are not submitted after the assigned week count zero. No student can be excused from missing assignments. 

	

	Course Schedule

The course schedule for this class is shown in detail at the end of this syllabus



Credit Hour Compliance:

This course earns 3 credits; therefore, students will spend 150 minutes in class per week for 15 weeks, resulting in 37.5 hours of instructional time for the semester. Students are expected to spend at least 5 hours per week for a total of 75 hours on outside-of-class preparation (e.g. readings, assignments). These two sums should result in a total student engagement time of 112.5 hours for the course. Note that these time allotments are minimums, not maximums.



Statement Regarding Possibility of Syllabus and/or Schedule Change:  

At times, topics shown in this syllabus may be taught in a different sequence, new topics added, and others adjusted. This will ensure the relevancy of the course and enhance your learning.  Please be prepared to be flexible and adjust as this class evolves. All assignments and specifics are noted on the board at the start of each class.  All notifications of changes will be done through Blackboard announcements and emails.




Class Policies:  



Gallaudet University Academic Integrity Policy: 

Do not plagiarize in this or any other Gallaudet University class.  If you see a good idea and use it in a paper, presentation, or even a comment in class, add the author’s name before or after your comment.  This goes for when you exactly quote something or even when you just mention an idea from the author. All students must comply with the Gallaudet University Academic Integrity Policy. Using other people’s work as your own or using the same work for another class for this one is dishonest and only cheating yourself out of a good education. It is your responsibility to understand and follow this policy. The official policy can be found at

http://www.gallaudet.edu/academic-catalog/registration-and-policies/undergraduate-policies/academic-integrity.html



Gallaudet Undergraduate Academic Calendar

It is the student’s responsibility to familiarize themselves with Gallaudet University’s Academic Calendar with respect to when classes meet and holidays are.  The Academic Calendar can be found at the Gallaudet University website at http://www.gallaudet.edu/registrars-office/academic-calendars.html



OSWD Academic Accommodation Policy: 

Students who require accommodations need to register with the Office for Students with Disabilities (OSWD) in order to have their status certified and recorded. OSWD will contact the instructors to arrange for accommodation, but only after certification has been determined. No accommodation can be provided prior to authorization by OSWD. For more information about OSWD policy, go to http://www.gallaudet.edu/academic-catalog/registration-and-policies/undergraduate-policies/academic-accommodations-policy.html



ADA Compliance 

For information on your rights under the ADA and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation ACT, please see https://www.gallaudet.edu/af/section-1-general/110-reasonable-accommodation.html



Reporting Responsibilities:

While I want you to feel comfortable coming to me with issues you may be struggling with or concerns you may be having, please be aware that I have some reporting requirements that are part of my job requirements at Gallaudet University.

For example, if you inform me of an issue of sexual harassment, sexual assault, or discrimination I will keep the information as private as I can, but I am required to bring it to the attention of the Title IX Coordinator or EEO/AA office. If you would like to talk to those offices directly, they can be reached by contacting Sharrell McCaskill through VP (202-559-5683) or at her office in College Hall 312 or at the following website: https://www.gallaudet.edu/title-ix-at-gallaudet-university. Additionally, you can also report incidents or complaints to DPS. You can also get support at CAPS (Counseling and Psychological Services), SHS (Student Health Services) and the Ombudsman. 

Another common example is if you are struggling with an issue that may be traumatic or unusual stress. I will likely inform the campus Behavioral Intervention Team (BIT) or CAPS. If you would like to reach out directly to them for assistance, you can contact them at https://www.gallaudet.edu/student-affairs/behavior-intervention-team. 

Finally, know that I am always willing to listen and give advice if needed. 

Class Cancellation or University Closing:

If the university closes for any reason or the instructor unexpectedly miss class, that day’s work will be conducted via Blackboard. Check the announcement section of Blackboard for specific instructions, which will be posted by class time if at all possible.



Masking Requirements

The university has a mask policy that utilizes three colors: green, yellow, and red. Please click on this link to read about the university’s mask policy: Gallaudet University mask policy. 

Under the current Yellow Mask Policy Status, all faculty and students are required to wear masks indoors, including in face-to-face classes that are held indoors. We have ordered a very large supply of clear masks that fit above the nose and under the chin. It takes some time to get used to them but please follow the mask posted mask status.  

Mask Etiquette

As we monitor the Mask Status (Green, Yellow, Red) to determine when and where we must mask up, there may be certain students, faculty, and/or staff who may wish to mask up even if they are not required to. This decision might cause stigma/taboo by others which might lead to assumptions that they are not vaccinated, which we know not to be always true. We have students who are vaccinated who prefer to wear masks all the time or are medically unable to be vaccinated so please be sensitive to their position with respect and civility. 

What Will Happen if People Refuse to Wear a Mask

We expect that most if not all people will respect the indoor mask policy. If a person refuses to wear a mask in class or takes off their mask and does not put it back on, they will be asked to leave the class immediately and meet with their instructor about the incident. The instructor is required to report such incidents to Student Accountability Restorative Practice (SARP) immediately after class with the student’s name and a summary of the incident. SARP will follow up right away with the student. Such incidents may lead to disciplinary action.




Student Learning Outcomes (SLOs):  

Please see the end of the syllabus for a complete chart of SLOs, critical learning opportunities, assessment methods, and alignment with program and university outcomes as well as those required by the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP).

Gallaudet University

The Gallaudet University Student Learning Outcomes can be found through the following link: https://www.gallaudet.edu/general-education-1/student-learning-outcomes



Accounting Program

Graduates of BS in Accounting Program will demonstrate competence and learning outcomes in the following seven domains:  

Accurately apply fundamental business concepts, models, and principles to address hypothetical or real-world business issues. (Common Business Knowledge & Inquiry)

Communicate effectively in both American Sign Language and written English in various formats and styles to a variety of audiences in multiple business contexts. (Communication)

Apply technological tools and statistical and quantitative reasoning skills in analyzing and evaluating numerical information to support evidence-based business decisions. (Quantitative Reasoning & Technological Skills)

Critically assess business problems and develop well-supported solutions. (Critical Thinking & Problem Solving)

Critically evaluate all business opportunities and challenges using a global business perspective. (Global Dimension)

Consistently act in a professional, ethical, and socially responsible manner, and collaborate effectively in teamwork when required. (Ethics & Social Responsibility)

Accounting Discipline Specialty Knowledge and Inquiry

7a. Demonstrate knowledge in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), managerial accounting theories, auditing, taxation, and other accounting concepts and rules. 

7b. Prepare, interpret, and summarize financial statements and reports in accordance with GAAP. 

7c. Apply Information Technology tools in analyzing accounting information and solve business problems based on accounting theory, financial regulations, and business standards




Course Program

The overall objective of the course is to provide students with concepts and tools needed to understand, apply, and communicate accounting information for managerial decisions. 

After completing the course, students should be able to:

Correctly use the concepts and vocabulary of cost classification and cost management.

Organize, use, and communicate accounting information effectively for planning, control, decision making, performance evaluation, and business reporting purpose.

Employ the management accounting concepts to enhance organizational operation and strategies designed to provide students with the course accounting information for decision-making, planning, directing, and controlling purposes.

Assess how to manage the fixed and variable costs of a business organization through the use of a Pro-forma income statement and Cost-Volume-Profit analysis.  We will study how managers can use this cost information to implement plans and improve the process of providing goods and services to customers.

Provide management accounting information to aid

the analysis of a service/product line for managerial decision making such as make-or-buy service/product, adding-or-dropping services/products, and expanding-or-reducing service/product

Explain the important role that budgeting plays in a business organization

Demonstrate some understanding of professional and ethical responsibilities required in the accounting and business profession. 

Demonstrate appropriate behaviors throughout the course, which include but are not limited to civility, professional etiquette, ethical behavior, respect, responsibility, and full class participation.



Student Learning Outcomes (SLOs) and Assessment of Learning: 

This chart shows the primary learning outcomes for this course, the learning opportunities for developing those outcomes, and the tools used to assess those outcomes.  It also shows how the course outcomes align with the outcomes of the Accounting program and of the university.

ACC203 Student Learning Outcomes

Critical Learning Opportunities

Tools for Assessment and Expected Levels

Accounting Program SLOs

GU SLOs

Critical Thinking

Use quantitative reasoning to solve accounting problems and various business problems; solve appropriate managerial accounting problems

Knowledge and Inquiry

Demonstrate knowledge of basic managerial accounting techniques

Homework







Quiz/Test

Assignment Tied-Checklist

Exam Tied- Checklist

1, 3

3, 4, 6

Critical Thinking

Select the appropriate tools to make business decisions; solve appropriate managerial accounting problems

Knowledge and Inquiry

Apply the managerial accounting techniques for business decision making

Project

Assignment Tied-Checklist

Exam Tied- Checklist 

1, 3, 4, 5

4, 5, 6

Communication and Language.

Use writing conventions specific for Business disciplines; Interpret managerial/financial information; Write clear and concise answers to assigned questions.

Critical Thinking

Solve appropriate managerial accounting problems

Ethics & Social Responsibility

Be familiar with current business ethical issues on assignments; Understand their professional responsibility requirements for their field of business and accounting.

Class Discussion 

Checklist







1, 2, 4, 5, 6

1, 2, 6

		

Managerial Accounting (ACC203). Schedule of Class Activities & Assignments

Date

Class Activity

Homework Assignments (Due Next Class)

Tue 08/31

Introduction, Class Policies and Expectations Lecture Discussions

Read Chapter 1. Managerial Accounting and Cost Concepts

Homework 1. Quiz 1

Thu 09/02

 

Lecture Discussions. In-class Practice

Read Chapter 2. Job-Order Costing: Calculating Unit Product Costs

Homework 2

Tue 09/07

 

Lecture Discussions. In-class Practice

Quiz 2

Study for test on Chapters 1 & 2 

Thu 09/09

 

Test on Chapters 1 & 2 (bring your laptop, calculator, and textbook)

Read Chapter 3. Job-Order Costing: Cost Flows and External Reporting

Homework 3

Tue 09/14

 

Lecture Discussions

Quiz 3

Project 3 - Overhead Analysis

Thu 09/17

Lecture Discussions. In-class Practice

Read Chapter 4. Activity-Based Costing

Homework 4

Tue 09/21

 

Lecture Discussions

Quiz 4

Project 4 - Plantwide and Departmental Overhead Allocation

Thu 09/24

Lecture Discussions. In-class Practice

Study for test on Chapters 3 & 4 

Tue 09/28

Test on Chapters 3 & 4 (bring your laptop, calculator, and textbook)

Read Chapter 5. Process Costing

Homework 5

Thu 09/30

Lecture Discussions

Quiz 5

Project 5 - Process Costing

Tue 10/05

Lecture Discussions. In-class Practice

Read Chapter 6. Cost-Volume-Profit Relationships

Homework 6

Thu 10/07

Lecture Discussions

Quiz 6

Project 6 - CVP Analysis

Tue 10/12

Lecture Discussions. In-class Practice

Study for test on Chapters 5 & 6

Thu 10/14

Test on Chapters 5 & 6 (bring your laptop, calculator, and textbook)

Read Chapter 7. Variable Costing and Segment Reporting

Homework 7

Tue 10/19

Lecture Discussions



Quiz 7

Project 7 - Variable and Absorbing Analysis

Thu 10/21

Lecture Discussions.  In-class Practice.



Read Chapter 8. Master Budgeting

Homework 8

Tue 10/26

Lecture Discussions

Quiz 8

Project 8 - Cash Budgeting

Thu 10/28

Lecture Discussions. In-class Practice.

Study for test on Chapters 7 & 8

Tue 11/02

Test on Chapters 7 & 8 (bring your laptop, calculator, and textbook)

Read Chapter 9. Flexible Budgets, Standard Costs, and Variance Analysis

Homework 9

Thu 10/04

Lecture Discussions

Quiz 9

Project 9 - Variance Analysis

Tue 11/09

Lecture Discussions. In-class Practice. 

Read Chapter 10. Performance Measurement in Decentralized Organizations

Homework 10

Thu 11/11

Lecture Discussions

Quiz 10

Project 10 - Return on Investment and Residual Income

Tue 11/16

Lecture Discussions. In-class Practice. 



Study for test on Chapters 9 & 10

Thu 11/18

Test on Chapters 9 & 10 (bring your laptop, calculator, and textbook)

Read Chapter 11. Differential Analysis: The Key to Decision Making



11/22-11/28

No Classes

FALL BREAK

Tue 11/30

Lecture Discussions

Homework 11.

Quiz 11

Thu 12/02

Lecture Discussions. In-class Practice



Read Chapter 12. Capital Budgeting Decisions

Homework 12

Tue 12/07

Lecture Discussions. In-class Practice.

Quiz 12

Study for test on Chapters 11 & 12



Thu 12/09

Test on Chapters 11 & 12 (bring your laptop, calculator, and textbook)

Study for Final Exam

Tue 12/14

No classes



Study day

Thu 12/16

Final Exam

Semester Ends! Enjoy the Winter Break

Note: This schedule may be disrupted due to a guest speaker or other events