Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203

YOUR
FEEDBACK
YOUR
BOOK
Our research never ends. Continual feedback from you ensures
that we keep up with your changing needs.

www.cengagebrain.com

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

BUSN

11

INTRODUCTION TO BUSINESS

MARCE KELLY
Santa Monica College

CHUCK WILLIAMS
Butler University

Australia • Brazil • Mexico • Singapore • United Kingdom • United States

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

This is an electronic version of the print textbook. Due to electronic rights restrictions,
some third party content may be suppressed. Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed
content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. The publisher reserves the right
to remove content from this title at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it. For
valuable information on pricing, previous editions, changes to current editions, and alternate
formats, please visit www.cengage.com/highered to search by ISBN#, author, title, or keyword for
materials in your areas of interest.
Important Notice: Media content referenced within the product description or the product
text may not be available in the eBook version.

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

BUSN11

© 2019, 2018 Cengage Learning, Inc.

Marce Kelly and Chuck Williams
Unless otherwise noted, all content is © Cengage
Senior Vice President, Higher Ed Product,
Content, and Market Development: Erin Joyner
Product Manager: Heather Mooney
Content/Media Developer: Allie Janneck

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No part of this work covered by the copyright herein
may be reproduced or distributed in any form or by any means, except as
permitted by U.S. copyright law, without the prior written permission of the
copyright owner

Product Assistant: Tawny Schaad

For product information and technology assistance, contact us at

Marketing Manager: Charisse Darin

Cengage Customer & Sales Support, 1-800-354-9706 or
support.cengage.com.

Marketing Coordinator: Audrey Jacobs

For permission to use material from this text or product,

Content Project Manager: Darrell E. Frye

submit all requests online at www.cengage.com/permissions.

Senior Art Director: Bethany Bourgeois
Internal Designer: Lou Ann Thesing/

Library of Congress Control Number: 2017959000

Thesing Design
Cover Designer: Lisa Kuhn, Curio Press, LLC/Chris
Miller, Cmiller design
Cover Image: Matelly/Getty Images
Intellectual Property Analyst: Diane Garrity
Intellectual Property Project Manager:
Sarah Shainwald
Production Service: MPS Limited

Student Edition ISBN: 978-1-337-40713-7
Student Edition with MindTap ISBN: 978-1-337-40712-0
Cengage
20 Channel Center Street
Boston, MA 02210
USA
Cengage is a leading provider of customized learning solutions with
employees residing in nearly 40 different countries and sales in more
than 125 countries around the world. Find your local representative at
www.cengage.com.
Cengage products are represented in Canada by Nelson Education, Ltd.
To learn more about Cengage platforms and services, visit
www.cengage.com.
To register or access your online learning solution or purchase materials for
your course, visit www.cengagebrain.com.

Printed in the United States of America
Print Number: 01    Print Year: 2017

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

KELLY/WILLIAMS

BUSN

11

BRIEF CONTENTS

PA R T 1 T H E B U S I N E S S E N V I R O N M E N T
1
2
3
4

Business Now: Change Is the Only Constant
Economics: The Framework for Business

2

18

The World Marketplace: Business without Borders

38

Business Ethics and Social Responsibility: Doing Well by
Doing Good 58

5 Business Communication: Creating and Delivering Messages
that Matter

76

PA R T 2 C R E AT I N G A B U S I N E S S

6 Business Formation: Choosing the Form That Fits 92
7 Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Economic Rocket Fuel 112

PA R T 3 F IN A N C ING A B U S INE S S

8 Accounting: Decision Making by the Numbers 128
9 Finance: Acquiring and Using Funds to Maximize Value 148
10 Financial Markets: Allocating Financial Resources 170

PA R T 4 M A R K E T I N G A B U S I N E S S

11 Marketing: Building Profitable Customer Connections 190
12 Product and Promotion: Creating and Communicating Value 208
13 Distribution and Pricing: Right Product, Right Person, Right Place,
236

Right Price

PA R T 5 M A N A G I N G A B U S I N E S S

14 Management, Motivation, and Leadership: Bringing Business
to Life

252

15 Human Resource Management: Building a Top-Quality Workforce 270
16 Managing Information and Technology: Finding New Ways to Learn
and Link

286

Matelly/Getty Images

17 Operations Management: Putting It All Together 306
Personal Finance Appendix 328
Endnotes 341
Glossary 362
Index 379
Tear-out cards
Online Appendices
		 Appendix 1: Labor Unions and Collective Bargaining
		 Appendix 2: Business Law

Brief Contents
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

iii

CONTENTS
Letter to Students

3 The World Marketplace:

ix

Business without Borders

Part 1
THE BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT

3-1 An Unprecedented Opportunity

38

38

3-2	Key Reasons for International Trade

42

3-3 Global Trade: Taking Measure 43
3-4	Seizing the Opportunity: Strategies for Reaching
Global Markets 44
3-5	Barriers to International Trade

47

Rawpixel.com/Shutterstock

3-6	Free Trade: The Movement Gains Momentum 51

60

4-4	Defining Social Responsibility: Making the World a
Better Place 64
2

1-2 The History of Business: Putting It All in Context 6

4-5	Ethics and Social Responsibility in the Global Arena:
A House of Mirrors? 71

1-3 Nonprofits and the Economy: The Business of
Doing Good 7

4-6 Monitoring Ethics and Social Responsibility: Who Is
Minding the Store? 73

1-4 Factors of Production: The Basic Building Blocks

7

1-5 The Business Environment: The Context for Success 8

2 Economics: The Framework
for Business

5-1 Excellent Communication Skills: Your Invisible
Advantage 76

18

5-2 Nonverbal Communication: Beyond the Words 78

2-1 Economics: Navigating a Crisis 18

5-3 Choose the Right Channel: A Rich Array of Options 80

2-2 Managing the Economy Through Fiscal
and Monetary Policy 21
2-3 Capitalism: The Free Market System

5 Business Communication:
Creating and Delivering
Messages that Matter 76

1-6	Business and You: Making It Personal 16

5-4 Pick the Right Words: Is That Car Pre-Loved or Just
Plain Used?! 80

26

2-4 Planned Economies: Socialism and Communism

30

2-5 Mixed Economies: The Story of the Future 31
2-6 Evaluating Economic Performance: What’s Working? 33

iv

4-1	Ethics and Social Responsibility: A Close
Relationship 58
4-3	Ethics: Multiple Touchpoints 61

2

1-1 Business Now: Moving at Breakneck Speed

Responsibility: Doing Well
by Doing Good 58

4-2	Business Ethics: Not an Oxymoron

1 Business Now: Change
Is the Only Constant

4 Business Ethics and Social

5-5 Write High-Impact Messages: Breaking through
the Clutter 84
5-6 Create and Deliver Successful Verbal Presentations:
Hook ’Em and Reel ’Em In! 87

Contents
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Part 3
FINANCING A BUSINESS

Uber Images/Shutterstock

Monkey Business Images/Shutterstock

Part 2
CREATING A BUSINESS

6 Business Formation: Choosing

8 Accounting: Decision Making

6-1	Business Ownership Options: The Big Four

8-1 Accounting: Who Needs It—and Who Does It?

the Form That Fits

92

92

by the Numbers 128

6-2	Advantages and Disadvantages of Sole
Proprietorships 95

8-2 Financial Accounting: Intended for Those on the
Outside Looking In 130

6-3	Partnerships: Two Heads (and Bankrolls) Can Be Better
Than One 96

8-3 Financial Statements: Read All About Us

6-4	Corporations: The Advantages and Disadvantages
of Being an Artificial Person 98
6-5	The Limited Liability Company: The New Kid
on the Block 104
6-6	Franchising: Proven Methods for a Price

128

132

8-4	Interpreting Financial Statements:
Digging Beneath the Surface 138
8-5	Budgeting: Planning for Accountability 141
8-6	Inside Intelligence: The Role of Managerial
Accounting 143

106

9 Finance: Acquiring and Using

7 Small Business and

Entrepreneurship: Economic
Rocket Fuel 112

Funds to Maximize Value 148

9-1	What Motivates Financial Decisions? 148

7-1 Launching a New Venture: What’s in It for Me? 112

9-2 Identifying Financial Needs: Evaluation
and Planning 151

7-2 The Entrepreneur: A Distinctive Profile

9-3 Finding Funds: What Are the Options?

114

155

7-3 Finding the Money: Funding Options
for Small Businesses 117

9-4 Leverage and Capital Structure: How Much Debt Is
Too Much Debt? 159

7-4 Opportunities and Threats for Small Business: A TwoSided Coin 119

9-5 Acquiring and Managing Current Assets

7-5 Launch Options: Reviewing the Pros and Cons

163

9-6 Capital Budgeting: In It for the Long Haul 165

121

7-6 Small Business and the Economy: An Outsized
Impact 124

Contents
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

v

10 Financial Markets: Allocating
Financial Resources

11-3 Marketing Strategy: Where Are You Going, and How
Will You Get There? 195

170

11-4 Customer Behavior: Decisions, Decisions,
Decisions! 201

10-1 The Role of Financial Markets and Their Key
Players 170

11-5 Marketing Research: So What Do They
Really Think? 202

10-2 Regulating Financial Markets to Protect Investors
and Improve Stability 173

11-6 Social Responsibility and Technology: A Major
Marketing Shift 205

10-3 Investing in Financial Securities: What Are the
Options? 176

12 Product and Promotion:

10-4 Issuing and Trading Securities: The Primary
and Secondary Markets 180
10-5 Personal Investing

Creating and Communicating
Value 208

183

10-6 Keeping Tabs on the Market

187

12-1 Product: It’s Probably More Than You Thought 208
12-2	Product Differentiation and Planning: A Meaningful
Difference 212

Part 4
MARKETING A BUSINESS

12-3	Innovation and the Product Life Cycle: Nuts, Bolts, and
a Spark of Brilliance 216
12-4	Promotion: Influencing Consumer Decisions 220
12-5	A Meaningful Message: Finding the Big Idea 221

Ryan Pierse/Getty Images

12-6	The Promotional Mix: Communicating the
Big Idea 223

13 Distribution and Pricing: Right
Product, Right Person, Right
Place, Right Price 236

13-1 Distribution: Getting Your Product to Your
Customer 236
13-2	Wholesalers: Sorting Out the Options 239

11 Marketing: Building Profitable
Customer Connections

11-1 Marketing: Getting Value by Giving Value
11-2 The Customer: Front and Center 194

vi

190

190

13-3	Retailers: The Consumer Connection 240
13-4	Physical Distribution: Planes, Trains, and Much,
Much More 243
13-5	Pricing Objectives and Strategies: A High-Stakes
Game 245
13-6	Pricing in Practice: A Real-World Approach 247

Contents
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

15-4 Human Resource Planning: Drawing
the Map 274

Part 5
MANAGING A BUSINESS

15-5 Legal Issues: HR and the Long Arm
of the Law 283

16 Managing Information and
Monkey Business Images/Shutterstock

Technology: Finding New
Ways to Learn and Link 286

14 Management, Motivation,
and Leadership: Bringing
Business to Life 252

14-1 Bringing Resources to Life

252

16-2 Cloud Computing: The Sky’s the Limit!

286

292

16-3 Information Technology and Decision Making:
A Crucial Aid 293
16-4	Information Technology and the World
of E-Commerce 295
16-5 Challenges and Concerns Arising from
New Technologies 299

17 Operations Management:
Putting It All Together

306

17-1 Operations Management: Producing Value
in a Changing Environment 306
17-2 What Do Operations Managers Do? 310

14-2 Motivation: Lighting the Fire 255
14-3 Planning: Figuring Out Where to Go and How
to Get There 259
14-4 Organizing: Fitting Together the Puzzle Pieces 263
14-5 Leadership: Directing and Inspiring

16-1 Information Technology: Explosive Change

267

14-6 Controlling: Making Sure It All Works 268

15 Human Resource

Management: Building a
Top-Quality Workforce 270

15-1 Human Resource Management: Bringing Business
to Life 270
15-2 Human Resource Management Challenges: Major
Hurdles 271
15-3 Human Resources Managers: Corporate Black
Sheep? 273

17-3 Implications of a Service-Based Economy:
Responding to Different Challenges 316
17-4 The Technology of Operations 317
17-5 Focus on Quality 319
17-6 The Move to Be Lean and Green: Cutting Cost
and Cutting Waste 323

Personal Finance Appendix 328
Endnotes 341
Glossary 362
Index 379
Tear-out cards
Online Appendices
Appendix 1: Labor Unions and Collective
Bargaining

Appendix 2: Business Law

Contents
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

vii

With love and
appreciation
to Kathy,
the best friend imaginable!
—Marce Kelly

To Jenny,
the book is done, let’s play!
—Chuck Williams

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

LETTER TO STUDENTS
The idea for this book—a whole new way of learning—­
began with students like you across the country. We paid
attention to students who wanted to learn about business
without slogging through endless pages of dry text. We listened to students who wanted to sit through class without
craving a triple espresso. We responded to students who
wanted to use their favorite gadgets to prepare for tests.
So we are confident that BUSN will meet your needs.
The short, lively text covers all the key concepts without
the fluff. The examples are relevant and engaging, and the
visual style makes the book fun to read. But the text is only

© Brent Smith, Butler University

Marce Kelly

part of the package. You can access a rich variety of study
tools via computer or iPad—the choice is yours.
We did one other thing we hope you’ll like. We paid a
lot of attention to students’ concerns about the high price
of college textbooks. We made it our mission to ensure that
our package not only meets your needs but does so without busting your budget!
This innovative, student-focused package was developed by the authors—Marce Kelly and Chuck Williams—
and the experienced Cengage Learning publishers. The
Cengage team contributed a deep understanding of students and professors across the nation, and the authors
brought years of teaching and business experience.
Marce Kelly, who earned her MBA from UCLA’s ­Anderson
School of Management, spent the first 14 years of her career in marketing, building brands for Neutrogena and
The Walt Disney Corporation. But her true love is ­teaching,
so in 2000 she accepted a full-time teaching p
­ osition at
Santa Monica College. Professor Kelly has received seven
Outstanding Instructor awards from the International
Education Center and has been named four times to
­
Who’s Who Among American Teachers.
Chuck Williams’ interests include employee recruitment
and turnover, performance appraisal, and employee training and goal setting. Most recently, he was the Dean of
Butler University’s College of Business. He has taught in executive development programs at Oklahoma State University, the University of Oklahoma, Texas Christian University,
and the University of the Pacific. Dr. Williams was ­honored
by TCU’s M.J. Neeley School of Business with the undergraduate Outstanding Faculty Teaching Award, was a recipient
of TCU’s Dean’s Teaching Award, and was TCU’s nominee for
the U.S. Professor of the Year competition sponsored by the
Carnegie Foundation for the ­Advancement of Teaching. He
has written three other textbooks: Management, Effective
Management: A ­Multimedia Approach, and MGMT.
We would appreciate any comments or suggestions you want to offer about this package. You can reach
Chuck ­
Williams at crwillia@butler.edu, and Marce Kelly
at marcella.kelly@gmail.com. We wish you a fun, positive,
­productive term, and look forward to your feedback!

Chuck Williams
Letter to Students
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

ix

1

Business Now:

Change Is the Only Constant

LEARNING OBJECTIVES
1-1 Define business and discuss the role of business in the economy

Remember to visit

1-2 Explain the evolution of modern business

PAGE 17

1-3 Discuss the role of nonprofit organizations in the economy
1-4 Outline the core factors of production and how they affect the economy
1-5 Describe today’s business environment and discuss each key dimension

for additional

STUDY TOOLS

1-6 Explain how current business trends might affect your career choices

1-1

BUSINESS NOW: MOVING AT BREAKNECK SPEED

Day by day, the business world simply spins faster. Industries rise—and
sometimes fall—in the course of a few short months. Technologies forge
instant connections across the globe. Powerful new trends surface and
­submerge, sometimes within less than a year. In this ­fast-paced, fluid
environment, change is the only constant. According to Charles Darwin,
it is not the strongest of the species that survive, nor the most intelligent,
but the one most responsive to change. And so it is with business.
Successful firms lean forward and embrace the change.
They seek the opportunities and avoid the pitfalls. They
carefully evaluate risks. They completely understand their
market, and they adhere to ethical practices. Their core goal:
to generate long-term profits by delivering unsurpassed
value to their customers.
value The relationship between
Over the past decade,
the price of a good or a service
the explosive growth in soand the benefits that it offers its
cial media has played a pivcustomers.
otal new role for businesses

2

and consumers alike in today’s dynamic business environment. Digging deeper into current culture, several leadingedge trendspotting experts have recently identified an
array of key trends likely to shape the world’s economies
as we close out the turbulent teenage years of the twentyfirst century. A few highlights:
■■

Instant Skills: Remember how the rise of Instagram made all of us into pseudo professional
photographers? Well, Trendwatching.com predicts that hundreds of millions of status-hungry

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Rawpixel.com/Shutterstock.com

After studying this chapter, you will be able to:

“consumers will care less about what they have or
buy and more about what they can do or create”—
seeking services that eliminate time and learning
barriers to their creation of professional quality
output.
■■

Fun and Games: Research suggests that the average human attention span, currently only slightly
longer than that of a goldfish, is decreasing rapidly.
Not surprisingly, capturing and retaining the attention of customers, employees, and investors is more
challenging than ever. In spite of declining attention
spans, creating a sense of fun is gaining momentum
as an effective tool for engaging audiences. It’s fairly
easy to understand why—wouldn’t you rather do
something fun than something boring? Swedish
amusement park Liseberg recently released an app
to accompany its new Helix roller coaster. Attendees
standing in line for the attraction could use the app to
play a free Helix-themed game, and every 15 minutes,
the player with the highest score got a pass to skip
the line. This strategy was not only creative, but it also
increased visitors’ fun! Similarly, workplace messaging
app Slack became one of the fastest growing business
applications in history due, in part, to its playful sense

“T
You
he chief
miss 100%
business
of the
of the
shots you
American
don’t take.”
people is business”
— CWAY
A L VNI NE GC OR EO TL ZI DKGY.E
A M E R I C AHNO CP KR E YS I SD TE AN RT

of humor. For instance, Slack allows users to create
custom emojis using colleagues’ faces and displays
error messages such as, “We’ve seen this problem
clear up with a restart of your browser, a solution
which we suggest to you now only with great regret
and self-loathing.”
■■

Robolove: Everyone knows that robots can save
time and money—and who doesn’t like efficiency?
But do we like the robots themselves? Many people
imagine a bleak robotic future with robocops out of
control and robo-workers putting human workers
out of work. That may well happen, but Trendwatching.com predicts that many of us will thoroughly
enjoy our early contacts with robots. For instance,
Düsseldorf Airport in Germany recently unveiled the
world’s first robotic parking valet. Customers leave
their car, and a robot picks it up and positions the
vehicle in one of 249 dedicated spaces. The system
CHAPTER 1: Business Now: Change Is the Only Constant

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

3

connects to the airport’s flight database, meaning
that customers find their vehicle ready and waiting
for them upon their return. Hard to get more convenient than that—and the robotic valet doesn’t even
expect a tip!1

4

■■

Virtual Experience Economy:
Anyone who was nearly plowed
over in 2016 by someone with his or
her head down—totally engrossed
in the search for an elusive Pokemon
(or maybe you were the one plowing
people down)—knows just how immersive a virtual or augmented reality
experience can be. Trendspotting
experts at Trendwatching.com boldly
project that “digital experiences will
quickly come to carry a statusweight equal to ‘real’ experiences,
if not become more sought-after
and prized.” Take music concerts
for example. The holographic
“performance” of rapper Tupac’s
Shakur at the 2012 Coachella music
festival (15 years after the artist’s death)
garnered more headlines than any other
concert that year. A holographic Michael
Jackson made similar waves two years later
at the 2014 Billboard Awards. China, an early
developer and adopter of virtual reality
games and shopping programs, seems
poised to become a leading-edge player in
the virtual experience economy.2

■■

Taking Millennials Seriously: The millennial
generation—comprised of people born between
1980 and 1995—likely includes many of the students reading this text. Millennials have been at
the butt end of a lot of jokes about their outsized
sense of entitlement, large number of meaningless
trophies, and “addiction” to their cell phones. The
Los Angeles Times, for example, recently published a
“Millennial Pledge” that it suggested all millennials
affirm before they qualify for actual adulthood. A
few excerpts:
■■

Just once, I will try eating without texting.

■■

I will not consider the cilantro on my taco to be a
vegetable.

■■

Each year, I will pen at least one thank-you note
using what’s left of my cursive writing skills.

■■

I will vote. Always.

■■

I will force myself to finally make a phone call.

■■

If my first-born is a boy, I promise not to name him
Uber.

Joking aside, millennials now represent both
the largest customer and the largest employee
segment of the population, which means that
successful businesses must take them seriously.
As baby boomers continue to retire in record
numbers, businesses will soon begin to face a
severe leadership gap. Training and developing millennials to fill that gap will be a critical
success factor for many businesses in the very
near future.
■■ Preparing for Generation Z: As the
last millennials move through college
and enter the workforce, Generation Z—comprised of people born
between 1996 and 2011—is rolling
in right behind them. Generation Z,
also known as the Digital Native generation, outnumbers millennials by one million
people. In fact, more than a quarter of America’s population belongs to this generation.
Although it would be easy to characterize
Generation Z as an exaggerated version of
millennials, it wouldn’t do them justice—
they are fundamentally different. Millennials shaped the Internet, but digital
natives can’t remember a world without
Kjpargeter/Shutterstock.com
it. The defining event of generation Z
was the Great Recession, which means that many
of them don’t trust business. While their millennial
counterparts were glad to be “walking billboards”
for trendy brands such as Hollister, Abercrombie &
Fitch, and Supreme, the most stylish digital natives
are likely to sport vintage clothing from thrift stores.
Digital natives don’t feel entitled to a great job when
they graduate college; they think they’ll be lucky
to get one. In the meantime, they are saving their
money, only spending when a business offers them
value. Digital natives use their considerable technical prowess to seek out the best possible values;
no-frills, only-pay-for-what-you-use businesses are
highly appealing to them. Similar to millennials,
digital natives tend to be extremely tolerant and
inclusive, with little understanding of or room in their
lives for bigotry of any kind. They also tend to have
very short attention spans (8 seconds on average),
in part because they juggle their lives among an

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

O O P S! W H AT W E R E T H E Y T H I N K I N G ?
Not Every Dumb Move Is an Utter Disaster…
In the wake of disastrous mistakes and outrageous
mismanagement across our economy, it might be
tough to remember that some mistakes are actually pretty
amusing. Several examples might help remind you.
▪▪ Bad fabric, not fat thighs: In early 2013, Lululemon
Athletica was forced to recall its popular (and expensive) yoga
pants, because many women found them utterly see-through.
Later in the year, the founder of the firm was forced to resign
after blaming the problem on women with fat thighs who
rubbed the fabric too sheer with multiple uses.3
▪▪ Apple angst: In a rare display of new product development weakness, Apple released its Maps program before
it was ready for the Big Time. Mostly harmless, the program
baffled millions of trusting consumers. But in Fairbanks,
Alaska, it directed hapless users onto active runways of the

average of five different screens. In sum, millennials
approached adulthood hoping to be discovered,
while digital natives approach adulthood planning
to work for success.7
1-1a  Business Basics: Some Key

Definitions

While you can certainly recognize a business when you
see one, more formal definitions may help as you read
through this book. A business is any organization or
activity that provides goods and services in an effort to
earn a Profit is the financial reward that comes from
starting and running a business. More specifically, profit
is the money that a business earns in sales (or revenue),
minus expenses such as the cost of goods and the cost
of salaries. But clearly, not every business earns a profit
all the time. When a business brings in less money than
it needs to cover expenses, it incurs a loss. If you launch
a music label, for instance, you’ll need to pay your artists,
lease a studio, and purchase equipment, among other expenses. If your label generates hits, you’ll earn more than
enough to cover all your expenses and make yourself
rich. But a series of duds could leave you holding the bag.
Just the possibility of earning a profit provides a powerful
incentive for people of all backgrounds to launch their
own enterprises. But unfortunately, the rate of new business start-ups has been decreasing over the past few years.

international airport. Fortunately, there were no collisions—
the worst harm done was to Siri’s reputation as a navigator.4
▪▪ Geography lessons needed: In 2016, Coca-Cola sent
a promotional tweet featuring an outdated map of Russia.
Offended Russian patriots responded with pictures of
themselves pouring the soft drink into toilets with the
hashtag #BanCocaCola.5
▪▪ Thank you, Captain Obvious! A surprising number of
firms just can’t seem to credit their customers with even
basic intelligence. Marks & Spencer’s labeled one of their
Bread Puddings, PRODUCT WILL BE HOT AFTER HEATING.
On a Sears hairdryer, DO NOT USE WHILE SLEEPING. And
on packaging for a Rowenta iron, DO NOT IRON CLOTHES
ON BODY. While these warnings most likely have a legal
backstory, it’s hard for a reasonable consumer not to see
them as silly goofs.6

As the economy has finally emerged from the Great Recession, and unemployment and financial ruin are less of a
threat, fewer people have been motivated to risk starting
new businesses.8 People who do risk their time, money,
and other resources to start and manage a business are
called entrepreneurs.
Interestingly, as entrepreneurs create wealth for themselves, they produce a ripple effect that enriches everyone
around them. For instance, if your new website becomes
the next Facebook, who will benefit? Clearly, you will. And
you’ll probably spend at least some of that money enriching your local clubs, clothing stores, and car dealerships.
But others will benefit, too,
including your members,
business Any organization or
activity that provides goods and
advertisers on your site and
services in an effort to earn a profit.
the staff who support them,
contractors who build your
profit The money that a business
earns in sales (or revenue), minus
facilities, and the governexpenses, such as the cost of goods
ment that collects your
and the cost of salaries. Revenue 2
taxes. The impact of one
Expenses 5 Profit (or Loss).
successful entrepreneur can
loss When a business incurs
extend to the far reaches of
expenses that are greater than its
the economy. In fact, fastrevenue.
growing new firms generate
entrepreneurs People who
about 10% of all new jobs
risk their time, money, and other
in any given year.9 Multiply
resources to start and manage a
the impact by thousands
business.
of
entrepreneurs—each
CHAPTER 1: Business Now: Change Is the Only Constant

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

5

1-2

THE HISTORY OF BUSINESS:
PUTTING IT ALL IN CONTEXT

You may be surprised to learn that—unlike today—
business hasn’t always been focused on what the customer
wants. In fact, business in the United States has changed
rather dramatically over the past 200–300 years. Most business historians divide the history of American business
into five distinct eras, which overlap during the periods of
transition:
■■

Hulton Collection/Hulton Archive/Getty Images

working in his or her own self-interest—and you can see
how the profit motive benefits virtually everyone.
From a bigger-picture perspective, business drives up
the standard of living for people worldwide, contributing to a higher quality of life. Businesses not only provide
the products and services that people enjoy but also provide the jobs that people need. Beyond the obvious, business contributes to society through innovation—think cars,
TVs, and tablet computers. Business also helps raise the standard of living through taxes, which the government spends
on projects that range from streetlights to environmental
cleanup. Socially responsible firms contribute even more
by actively advocating for the well-being of the society that
feeds their success.
Henry Ford’s assembly line began operation
on December 1, 1913. Initially developed for
the Model T, this new production system
allowed manufacturers of all kinds to
output products like never before.

laws to regulate business and protect consumers and
workers, creating more balance in the economy.
■■

The Production Era: In the early part of the 1900s,
major businesses focused on further refining the
production process and creating greater efficiencies. Jobs became even more specialized, increasing
productivity and lowering costs and prices. In 1913,
Henry Ford introduced the assembly line, which
quickly became standard across major manufacturing industries. With managers focused on efficiency,
the customer was an afterthought. But when
customers tightened their belts during the Great
Depression and World War II, businesses took notice.
The “hard sell” emerged: a­ ggressive persuasion designed to separate consumers from their cash.

■■

The Marketing Era: After World War II, the balance
of power shifted away from producers and toward
consumers, flooding the market with enticing choices.
To differentiate themselves from their competitors, businesses began to develop brands, or ­distinctive ­identities,
to help consumers understand the ­differences among
various products. The marketing concept emerged: a
consumer focus that permeates successful companies
in every department, at every level. This approach continues to influence business decisions today as global
competition heats up to unprecedented levels.

■■

The Relationship Era: Building on the marketing
concept, today, leading-edge firms look beyond each

The Industrial Revolution: Technological advances fueled a period of rapid industrialization in
America from the mid-1700s to the mid-1800s. As
mass production took hold, huge factories replaced
skilled artisan workshops. The factories hired large
numbers of semiskilled workers who specialized in a
limited ­number of tasks. The result was unprecedented ­production efficiency but also a loss of individual
­ownership and personal pride in the production
process.

The Entrepreneurship Era: Building on the foundation of the Industrial Revolution, large-scale entrepreneurs emerged in the second half of the 1800s,
building business empires. These industrial titans created enormous wealth, raising the overall standard of
living across the country. But many also dominated
their markets, forcing out
competitors, manipulatstandard of living The
ing prices, exploiting
quality and quantity of goods and
workers, and decimating
services available to a population.
the environment. Toward
quality of life The overall
the end of the 1800s, the
sense of well-being experienced
government stepped into
by either an individual or a group.
the business realm, passing
■■

6

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

The Connection Economy
Success today no longer requires building great things, although
there will always be big rewards for building the best new things
(see Apple, Tesla, and Virgin, among other success stories).
According to industry leaders, the most successful firms of the
present rely on connection—either connecting buyers and sellers
or connecting consumers and information. Uber, the largest
ride-sharing company, owns no vehicles but connects people to
rides and drivers to customers. Airbnb, the largest provider of
accommodations, owns no real estate but connects people to
lodging. Kickstarter and Indiegogo, both giants of crowdfunding,
have no money to invest but may soon surpass traditional venture
capital firms by connecting investors to opportunities. According
to entrepreneur and author Seth Godin, the connection economy
works best when the following four conditions are met:
1. Coordination. Without coordination, connections can’t
happen. In fact, the most significant business opportunities
may lie in areas that currently appear chaotic.

immediate transaction with a customer and aim to
build long-term relationships. Satisfied customers
can become advocates for a business, spreading the
word with more speed and credibility than even the
best promotional campaign. And cultivating current
customers is more profitable than constantly seeking
new ones. One key tool is technology. Using the Web
and other digital resources, businesses gather detailed
information about their customers and use these data
to serve them better, “bringing a level of customer
centricity that we’ve never seen before,” according to
Graeme Noseworthy, marketing director for IBM.

1-3

NONPROFITS AND THE
ECONOMY: THE BUSINESS
OF DOING GOOD

Nonprofit organizations play a critical role in the economy,
often working hand in hand with businesses to improve
the quality of life in our society. Focusing on areas such as
health, human services, education, art, religion, and culture, nonprofits are business-like establishments, but
their ­primary goals do not include profits. Chuck Bean,
executive director of the Nonprofit Roundtable, explains:
“By definition, nonprofits are not in the business of financial gain. We’re in the business of doing good. However,
nonprofits are still businesses in every other sense—
they employ people, they take in revenue, they produce

2. Trust. Finding ways to connect and create value only works
when the players share basic trust.
3. Permission. When you offer ideas to people who give you
permission to do so, it’s a resource. Without that permission,
it’s an annoyance. What’s new and significant is that the
permission must be earned, and not requested.
4. The exchange of ideas. True value emerges when people
exchange ideas deliberately and with established purpose
(at a meet-up or conference, for instance).
Godin also emphases the importance of generosity and art.
No one wants to connect with a person who always takes but
never gives back. You must add value to all of your interactions
to make the connection worthwhile. Art is important, according
to Godin, because forward-thinking people are looking for the
extraordinary. Traditional systems are inherently boring and
unremarkable. In the connection economy, people are seeking
the remarkable—the things that are truly worthy of remark.10

goods and services and contribute in significant ways to
our region’s economic stability and growth.” Nationwide,
nonprofits employ about one in ten workers, accounting
for more paid workers than the entire construction industry and more than the finance, insurance, and real-estate
sectors combined. And nonprofit museums, schools, theaters, and orchestras have become economic magnets
for many communities, drawing additional investment.11

1-4

FACTORS OF PRODUCTION:
THE BASIC BUILDING BLOCKS

Both businesses and nonprofits rely on factors of
production—four fundamental resources—to achieve
their objectives. Some combination of these factors is crucial for an economic system to work and create wealth. As
you read through the factors,
keep in mind that they don’t
come free of charge. Human
nonprofits Business-like
establishments that employ people
resources, for instance, reand produce goods and services with
quire wages, while entreprethe fundamental goal of contributing
neurs need a profit incentive.
to the community rather than
■■

Natural Resources:
This factor includes all
inputs that offer value
in their natural state,
such as land, fresh water, wind, and mineral
deposits. Most natural

generating financial gain.

factors of production Four
fundamental elements—natural
resources, capital, human resources,
and entrepreneurship—that
businesses need to achieve their
objectives.

CHAPTER 1: Business Now: Change Is the Only Constant
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

7

kojoku/Shutterstock.com

■■

Many businesses work with nonprofits to
boost their impact in the community.
resources must be extracted, purified, or harnessed;
people cannot actually create them. (Note that agricultural products, which people do create through
planting and tending, are not a natural resource.) The
value of all natural resources tends to rise with high
demand, low supply, or both.
■■

Capital: This factor includes machines, tools, buildings, information, and technology—the synthetic
resources that a business needs to produce goods or
services. Computers and telecommunications capability have become pivotal elements of capital across
a surprising range of industries, from financial
services to professional sports. You may be surprised
to learn that in this context, capital does not include
money, but, clearly, businesses use money to acquire,
maintain, and upgrade their capital.

Human Resources: This factor encompasses the
physical, intellectual, and creative contributions
of everyone who works within an economy. As
technology replaces a growing number of manual
labor jobs, education and motivation have become
increasingly important to human resource development. Given the importance of knowledge to
workforce effectiveness,
business environment The
some business experts,
setting in which business operates.
The five key components are
such as management
economic environment, competitive
guru Peter Drucker, break
environment, technological
out knowledge as its own
environment, social environment,
category, separate from
and global environment.
human resources.
■■

8

Entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurs are people
who take the risk of launching and operating their
own businesses, largely in response to the profit
incentive. They tend to see opportunities where
others don’t, and they use their own resources
to capitalize on that potential. Entrepreneurial
enterprises can kick-start an economy, creating a
tidal wave of opportunity by harnessing the other
factors of production. But entrepreneurs don’t
thrive in an environment that doesn’t support
them. The key ingredient is economic freedom:
freedom of choice (whom to hire, for instance, or
what to produce), freedom from excess regulation,
and freedom from too much taxation. Protection
from corruption and unfair competition is another
entrepreneurial “must.”

Clearly, all of these factors must be in place for an
economy to thrive. But which factor is most important?
One way to answer that question is to examine current economies around the world. Russia and China are
both rich in natural resources and human resources, and
both countries have a solid level of capital (growing in
China, and deteriorating in Russia). Yet, neither country
is wealthy; both rank relatively low in terms of gross
national income per person. The missing ingredient
seems to be entrepreneurship, limited in Russia largely
through corruption and in China through government
interference and taxes. Contrast those examples with,
say, Hong Kong. The population is small, and the natural
resources are severely limited, yet Hong Kong has consistently ranked among the richest regions in Asia. The
reason: operating for many years under the British legal
and economic system, the government actively encouraged entrepreneurship, which fueled the creation of
wealth. Recognizing the potential of entrepreneurship,
China has recently done more to relax regulations and
support free enterprise. The result has been tremendous
growth, which may yet bring China into the ranks of the
wealthier nations.12

1-5

THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT:
THE CONTEXT FOR SUCCESS

No business operates in a vacuum. Outside factors play
a vital role in determining whether each individual business succeeds or fails. Likewise, the broader business
environment can make the critical difference in
whether an overall economy thrives or disintegrates. The
five key dimensions of the business environment are
the economic environment, the competitive environment,

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

the technological environment, the social environment,
and the global environment, as shown in Exhibit 1.1.
1-5a  The Economic Environment
In September 2008, the U.S. economy plunged into
the worst fiscal crisis since the Great Depression. Huge,
venerable financial institutions faced collapse, spurring
unprecedented bailouts by the federal government
and the Federal Reserve. By the end of the year, the
stock market had lost more than a third of its value, and
11.1 million Americans were out of work. Housing prices
fell precipitously, and ­
foreclosure rates reached record
levels. As fear swept through the banking industry, neither
businesses nor individuals could borrow money to meet
their needs. Economic turmoil in the United States spread
quickly around the world, fueling a global economic crisis.
The U.S. economy continued to stagger through 2010
and 2011, with unemployment remaining stubbornly
high, although signs of recovery began to emerge in late
2012, and certainly in 2013. The Federal Reserve—the U.S.
central banking system—took unprecedented, proactive steps to encourage an economic turnaround. And
President Barack Obama spearheaded passage of a massive economic stimulus package, designed not only to
create jobs but also to build infrastructure—with a focus

Exhibit 1.1

The Business Environment

En

S
vi ocia
ro
nm l
en
t

i c t
om en
on m
Ec iron
v
En

BUSINESS
tive t
peti
Com ronmen
i
Env
Technological
Envir onme nt

G
Env lobal
iron
men
t

Each dimension of the business environment affects both individual
businesses and the economy in general.

“A banker is a fellow who lends
you his umbrella when the sun
is shining, but wants it back the
minute it begins to rain.”
— M A R K T WA I N ,
AMERICAN AUTHOR

on renewable energy—to position the U.S. economy for
stability and growth in the decades to come. (The price,
of course, was more national debt, which will ultimately
counterbalance some of the benefits.) Although the U.S.
economic recovery continued through 2015, the entire
world economy began to stagger in early 2016 as economic instability in China caused frightening ripples
around the globe.
The government also takes active steps on an ongoing basis to reduce the risks of starting and running a
business. The result: free enterprise and fair competition
flourish. Despite the economic crisis, research suggests
that most budding entrepreneurs still plan to launch their
firms in the next three years. One government policy that
supports business is the relatively low federal tax rate, both
for individuals and businesses. A number of states—from
Alabama to Nevada—make their local economies even
more appealing by providing special tax deals to attract
new firms. The federal government also runs entire agencies that support business, such as the Small Business
Administration. Other branches of the government, such
as the Federal Trade Commission, actively promote fair
competitive practices, which help give every enterprise a
chance to succeed.
Another key element of the U.S. economic environment is legislation that supports enforceable contracts.
For instance, if you contract a baker to supply your health
food company with 10,000 pounds of raw kale chips at
$1.00 per pound, that firm must comply or face legal consequences. The firm can’t wait until a day before delivery
and jack up the price to $10.00 per pound because you
would almost certainly respond with a successful lawsuit.
Many U.S. businesspeople take enforceable contracts for
granted, but in a number of developing countries—which
offer some of today’s largest business opportunities—
contracts are often not enforceable (at least not in dayto-day practice).
Corruption also affects the economic environment.
A low level of corruption and bribery dramatically reduces the risks of running a business by ensuring that
everyone plays by the same set of rules—rules that are
CHAPTER 1: Business Now: Change Is the Only Constant

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

9

clearly visible to every player. Fortunately, U.S. laws keep
domestic corruption mostly—but not completely—at
bay. Other ethical lapses, such as shady accounting, can
also increase the cost of doing business for everyone
involved. But in the wake of corporate ethical meltdowns
such as Enron, the federal government has passed
tough-minded new regulations to increase corporate
accountability. If the new legislation effectively curbs
illegal and unethical practices, every business will have a
fair chance at success.
Upcoming chapters on economics and ethics will address these economic challenges and their significance in
more depth. But bottom line, we have reason for cautious
(some would say very cautious) optimism. The American
economy has a proven track record of flexibility and resilience, which will surely help us navigate this crisis and uncover new opportunities.

EXHIBIT 1.2 2 016 GLOBAL BRAND CHAMPIONS
AND THE ONES TO WATCH,
INTERBRAND

1-5b  The Competitive Environment
As global competition intensifies yet further, leadingedge companies have focused on customer satisfaction
like never before. The goal: to develop long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with customers. Getting
current customers to buy more of your product is a lot
less expensive than convincing potential customers to
try your product for the first time. And if you transform
your current customers into loyal advocates—vocal
promoters of your product or service—they’ll get those
new customers for you more effectively than any advertising or discount program. Companies such as Amazon, Coca-Cola, and Northwestern Mutual life insurance
lead their industries in customer satisfaction, which
translates into higher profits even when the competition is tough.13
Customer satisfaction comes in large part from delivering unsurpassed value. The best measure of value is the
size of the gap between product benefits and price. A product has value when its benefits to the customer are equal
to or greater than the price that the customer pays. Keep in
mind that the cheapest product doesn’t necessarily represent the best value. If a 99-cent toy from Big Lots breaks in
a day, customers may be willing to pay several dollars more
for a similar toy from somewhere else. But if that 99-cent
toy lasts all year, customers will be delighted by the value
and will likely encourage their friends and family to shop at
Big Lots. The key to value is quality, and virtually all successful firms offer top-quality
products relative to their
speed-to-market The rate at
direct competitors.
which a new product moves from
A recent ranking
conception to commercialization.
study by consulting firm

10

Percentage
Growth

Most Valuable

Biggest Gainer

Apple

Facebook

148%

Google

Amazon

133%

Coca-Cola

Lego

125%

Microsoft

Nissan

122%

Toyota

Adobe

121%

IBM

Starbucks

120%

Samsung

Zara

119%

Amazon

Mercedes-Benz

118%

Mercedes-Benz

Porsche

118%

GE

Hermes

117%

Source: Best Global Brands 2016, Interbrand, http://interbrand.com/best-brands/best-global-brands/2016
/ranking/, accessed January 23, 2017.

Interbrand highlights brands that use imagination and
innovation to deliver value to their customers. Exhibit 1.2
shows the winners and the up-and-comers in the race
to capture the hearts, minds, and dollars of consumers
around the world.

Leading Edge versus Bleeding Edge Speed-tomarket—the rate at which a firm transforms concepts into
actual products—can be another key source of competitive advantage. And the pace of change just keeps getting
faster. In this tumultuous setting, companies that stay ahead
of the pack often enjoy a distinct advantage. But keep in
mind that there’s a difference between leading edge and
bleeding edge. Bleeding-edge firms launch products that
fail because they’re too far ahead of the market. During
the late 1990s, for example, in the heart of the dot.com
boom, Webvan, a grocery delivery service, launched to
huge fanfare. But the firm went bankrupt just a few years
later in 2001, partly because customers weren’t yet ready to
dump traditional grocery stores in favor of cyber-shopping.
Leading-edge firms, on the other hand, offer products just
as the market becomes ready to embrace them.14
Apple provides an excellent example of leading edge.
You may be surprised to learn that Apple—which controls
about 70%15 of the digital music player market—did not
offer the first MP3 player. Instead, it surveyed the existing
market to help develop a new product, the iPod, which
was far superior in terms of design and ease-of-use. But
Apple didn’t stop with one successful MP3 player. Racing

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Nadalina/Shutterstock.com

role in both employee satisfaction and strong stock
performance.17
Finding and holding the best talent will
likely become a crucial
competitive issue in the
next decade as the baby
boom generation begins
to retire. The 500 largest
U.S. companies anticipate
losing about half of their
senior managers over
the next five to six years.
Since January 1, 2011, approximately 10,000 baby
boomers began to turn 65
(the traditional retirement
age) every day, and the
Pew Research Center anticipates that this trend
will continue for 19 years.
Workforce Magazine named American Express as its top company
Replacing the skills and
for HR management in 2016. Google, Accenture, USAA, and AT&T
experience these workers
rounded out the rest of the top five.
bring to their jobs may
be tough: baby boomers
include about 77 million
to stay ahead, they soon introduced the colorful, more afpeople, while the generation that follows includes only
fordable iPod mini. And before sales reached their peak,
46 million. Firms that cultivate human resources now will
they launched the iPod Nano, which essentially pulled the
find themselves better able to compete as the market for
top talent tightens.18 However, job market contraction may
rug from under the blockbuster iPod mini just a few short
not be an issue, because a growing number of baby boommonths before the holiday selling season. Why? If they
ers opt to either postpone retirement or continue working
hadn’t done it, someone else may well have done it instead.
part-time during retirement, in the face of inadequate
And Apple is almost maniacally focused on maintaining its
financial resources.
competitive lead.16
1-5c  The Workforce Advantage

1-5d  The Technological Environment

Employees can contribute another key dimension to a firm’s
competitive edge. Recent research suggests that investing
in worker satisfaction yields tangible, bottom-line results.
The researchers evaluated the stock price of Fortune magazine’s annual list of the “100 Best Companies to Work for in
America” to the S&P 500, which reflects the overall market.
From 2009 to 2014, cumulative stock market returns for the
“100 Best” were up 1205%, compared to 1121% for the
S&P 500. On an annualized basis, this translates to a return of
about 120.4% per year for the “100 Best,” and about 114.1%
per year for the S&P 500 over the same time period. While
the critical difference in performance most likely stemmed
from employee satisfaction, other factors—such as excellent
product and superb top management—likely also played a

The broad definition of business technology includes
any tools that businesses can use to become more efficient and effective. But more specifically, in today’s world,
business technology usually refers to computers, telecommunications, and other digital tools. Over the past few
decades, the impact of digital technology on business
has been utterly transformative. New industries
have emerged, while othbusiness technology Any
tools—especially computers,
ers have disappeared. And
telecommunications, and other
some fields—such as travel,
digital products—that businesses
banking, and music—have
can use to become more efficient
changed dramatically. Even
and effective.
in categories with relatively
CHAPTER 1: Business Now: Change Is the Only Constant

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

11

The Uber Syndrome
No doubt about it—senior executives make the most money in
business. They also have the most to worry about, however. In a
2015 study of senior executives, one participant described her
firm’s biggest worry as “the ‘Uber Syndrome’—where a competitor
with a completely different business model enters your industry
and flattens you.” In today’s tumultuous business world, this
concern is completely understandable. Analyzing the research,
Fortune magazine editor Geoff Colvin noticed that this year, for
the first time, most business leaders expected new competitors
to be outsiders. Business leaders know they must disrupt—or be
disrupted. The solution to this impending threat, according to
the small cohort of highly successful firms that the research dubs
“torchbearers,” seems to be to focus more on customers and less
on competitors. When a disruptive player makes its move, loyal
customers are less likely to defect and destroy your business.
According to a separate survey of CEOs released in 2016, the
two largest concerns among chief executives around the world

unchanged products, companies have leveraged technology to streamline production and create new efficiencies.
Examples include new processes such as computerized
billing, digital animation, and robotic manufacturing. For
fast-moving firms, the technological environment represents a rich source of competitive advantage, but it clearly
can be a major threat for companies that are slow to adopt
or to integrate new approaches.
The creation of the World Wide Web has transformed not only business but also people’s lives. Anyone,
anywhere, anytime can use the Web to send and receive
images and data (as long as access is available). One result
is the rise of e-commerce or online sales, which allow
businesses to tap into a worldwide community of potential
customers. In the wake of
the global economic crisis,
World Wide Web The service
e-commerce has slowed
that allows computer users to easily
from the breakneck 20%+
access and share information on the
growth rates of the past five
Internet in the form of text, graphics,
years, but even so, analysts
video, apps, and animation.
predict that solid growth
e-commerce Business
will continue. Business-totransactions conducted online,
business selling comprises
typically via the Internet.
the vast majority of total
demographics The
e-commerce sales (and an
measurable characteristics of a
even larger share of the
population. Demographic factors
include population size and density,
profits). A growing numas well as specific traits such as age,
ber of businesses have also
gender, and race.
connected their digital

12

are the global economic environment and geopolitical tensions.
The global economy is more integrated today than ever before,
and a crisis within any major country can quickly spread around
the world. We’ve seen this time and time again in recent years,
from the Grecian debt crisis of 2009 to the Chinese stock market
plunge of early 2016. Dennis Nally, global chairman of PwC
Consultancy, explains why geopolitical tension is a threat to
the global economy: “[If] you’ve got hot spots anywhere in
the world, it creates instability . . . business leaders hate
instability.” The latest PwC survey of CEOs shows that among
American CEOs in particular, there is widespread recognition
that a strong corporate purpose is vital in the digital world.
In addition, CEOs are focused on building stronger trust with
employees and customers alike. So if your life goal is to reach
the top rung at a major corporation, don’t expect to leave your
worries behind. It would seem that the higher you go, the more
pressing the worries.19

networks with suppliers and distributors to create a more
seamless flow of goods and services.20
Alternative selling strategies thrive on the Internet,
giving rise to a more individualized buying experience. If
you’ve browsed seller reviews on eBay or received shopping recommendations from Amazon, you’ll have a sense
of how personal web marketing can feel. Online technology
also allows leading-edge firms to offer customized products
at prices that are comparable to standardized products. On
the Burton website, for instance, customers can “custom
build” professional quality “Custom X” snowboards while sitting at home in their pajamas. Nike offers a similar service for
NikeID shoes, clothing, and gear.
As technology continues to evolve at breakneck
speed, the scope of change—both in everyday life and
business operations—is almost unimaginable. In this environment, companies that welcome change and manage it
well will clearly be the winners.
1-5e  The Social Environment
The social environment embodies the values, attitudes, customs, and beliefs shared by groups of people. It also covers
demographics, or the measurable characteristics of a
population. Demographic factors include population size and
density and specific traits such as age, gender, race, education, and income. Clearly, given all these influences, the social
environment changes dramatically from country to country.
And a nation as diverse as the United States features a number of different social environments. Rather than cover the

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Do You Do It?
More than 1,000 times a minute, someone in America bites into a Jack in the
Box taco—one of more than a million Jack in the Box tacos sold every day.
With such numbers, you might think that Jack unearthed the secret to
the perfect-tasting taco . . . but you’d be wrong. Jack’s taco has been
variously described by its fans as:
▪▪ “a wet envelope of cat food”
▪▪ “vile and amazing”
▪▪ “disgusting and delectable”
▪▪ “repulsive and yet irresistible”
So why does the Jack in the Box taco do so well? Food writer Sophie Egan offers three
possible reasons. First, it’s cheap. At two for $.99 it’s a real deal. Second, it’s fried.
As much as we like the idea of fruits and vegetables—fried stuff tastes good! Finally, it’s a
metaphorical flip of the bird to the “food police,” who many believe are attempting to exert
too much control over our rights to eat whatever we please. 21

Diversity While the American population has always included an array of different cultures, the United
States has become more ethnically diverse in recent
years. Caucasians continue to represent the largest chunk
of the population at 63%, but according to the director of the U.S. Census Bureau, “The next half century
marks a turning point in continuing trends—the U.S. will become a plurality nation, where the non-Hispanic white population remains the largest single group, but no group is in
the majority.” This will probably happen in about 2043. The
Hispanic and Asian populations will probably continue to
grow faster than any other ethnic groups. By 2060, nearly one
in three U.S. residents will be Hispanic, up from about one in
six today. This will happen even though the overwhelming
wave of immigration from Mexico to the United States has
stalled and even begun to reverse in the past few years; nevertheless, among Mexican-born people worldwide, one in
ten currently lives in the United States.22 Exhibit 1.3 demonstrates the shifting population breakdown.
But the national statistics are somewhat misleading,
since ethnic groups tend to cluster together. African Americans, for example, currently comprise about 37% of the
Mississippi population, Asians comprise about 39% of the
Hawaii population, and Hispanics comprise about 47% of
the New Mexico population.23

st

Ph

ot

hu

t te

r

ck

.co

m

So what does this mean for business? Growing ethnic populations offer robust profit potential for firms that
pursue them. For instance, a number of major brands
such as Coca-Cola, General Mills, Ford, Nestlé, Purina,
and Walmart have invested heavily in the Hispanic market over the past five years. Recognizing the potential of
the Hispanic market, Japanese automakers have begun
actively targeting Latino customers. Because of these efforts, Hispanic customers are reportedly 15% more likely
than any other group to buy a Japanese-made car. Toyota,

Exhibit 1.3

U.S. Population Estimates
80
70
% of Population

full spectrum, this section focuses on the broad social trends
that have the strongest impact on American business. Understanding the various dimensions of the social environment is
crucial since successful businesses must offer goods and services that respond to it.

r
Hu

S
o/

o
st

60
50
40

2014
2060

62.2%
43.6%
28.6%

30
20

12.4%13.0%

10
0

17.4%
5.2%

White

Black

Hispanic

9.1%

Asian

Population Group

2.0%

4.9%

Two or
more races

Source: Projections of the Size and Composition of the U.S. Population: 2014 to 2060, U.S. Census Bureau,
March 2015, https://www.census.gov/content/dam/Census/library/publications/2015/demo /p25-1143
.pdf, accessed May 9, 2016.

CHAPTER 1: Business Now: Change Is the Only Constant
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

13

in particular, has been the top-selling brand among Latinos for more than ten years thanks to its highly targeted
marketing. Targeting an ethnic market can also yield
remarkable results for products that cross over into mainstream culture. Music mogul and entrepreneur Russell
Simmons, for example, initially targeted his music and
clothing to the African American market, but his success
quickly spilled over to mainstream culture, helping him
build a hip-hop empire.24
Growing diversity also affects the workforce. A diverse staff—one that reflects an increasingly diverse
marketplace—can yield a powerful competitive advantage in terms of both innovation and ability to
reach a broad customer base. From global behemoths,
such as Coca-Cola and Verizon, to local corner stores,
companies have taken proactive steps to hire and nurture people from a broad range of backgrounds. And
that doesn’t just reflect racial or ethnic roots. True diversity also includes differences in gender, age, religion, and
nationality, among other areas. Leading-edge firms have
also taken proactive steps to train their entire workforce
to manage diversity for top performance.25
Effectively managing diversity should only become
easier as time goes by. Multiple studies demonstrate that
young American adults are the most tolerant age group,
and they are moving in a more tolerant direction than earlier generations regarding racial differences, immigrants,
and homosexuality. As this generation gathers influence
and experience in the workforce, they are likely to leverage diversity in their organizations to hone their edge in a
fiercely competitive marketplace.26

number of people in China over the age of 60 will double, leading to a nation where the retired will outnumber
the entire population of Western Europe. There are currently six workers to every retiree, but China’s one-child
policy suggests that the number of people providing for
the old will rapidly collapse.27
The rapidly aging population brings opportunities
and threats for business. Companies in fields that cater
to the elderly—such as healthcare, pharmaceuticals,
travel, recreation, and financial management—will clearly
boom. But creative companies in other fields will capitalize on the trend as well by reimagining their current
products to serve older clients. Possibilities include books
and movies—maybe even video games—with mature
characters; low-impact fitness programs such as water
aerobics; and cell phones and PDAs with more readable
screens. Again, the potential payoff of age diversity is
clear: companies with older employees are more likely to
find innovative ways to reach the aging consumer market.
But the larger numbers of retired people also pose significant threats to overall business success. With a smaller
labor pool, companies will need to compete even harder
for top talent, driving up recruitment and payroll costs.
As state and federal governments stretch to serve the aging population, taxes may increase, putting an additional
burden on business. And as mid-career workers spend
more on elder care, they may find themselves with less to
spend on other goods and services, shrinking the size of
the consumer market.

Rising Worker Expectations Workers of all ages
continue to seek flexibility from their employers. MoreAging Population As life spans increase and birthover, following massive corporate layoffs in the early
rates decrease, the American population is rapidly ag2000s, employees are much less apt to be loyal to their
ing. The U.S. Census Bureau projects that the nation’s
firms. A study released in 2013 showed that on average,
population age 65 and older will more than double
employees in Fortune 500 firms have a median tenure of
between 2005 and 2060. By 2060, older Americans will
only 3.68 years. As young people today enter the workrepresent just over one in five residents, up from one in
force, they bring higher expectations for their employers
seven today. Also, the number of working-age Ameriin terms of salary, job responsibility, and flexibility—and
cans will shrink from 63% to 57%
less willingness to pay dues by
of the population, dramatically
working extra-long hours or doing a
increasing the number of people
high volume of “grunt work.” Smart
In Asia, the average
who are depending on each workfirms are responding to the change
person’s living
ing American. And the United
in worker expectations by forging a
standards
are
States isn’t alone in this trend. The
new partnership with their employpopulation is aging across the
ees. The goal is a greater level of
currently set to rise
developed world, from Western
mutual respect through open comby 10,000% in one
Europe to Japan. China faces the
munication, information sharing,
lifetime!
same issue, magnified by its huge
and training. And the not-so-hidpopulation. Demographers estiden agenda, of course, is stronger
—NEWSWEEK
mate that in the next 20 years the
long-term performance.28

14

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Rawpixel.com/Shutterstock.com

Ethics and Social
Responsi­bility With
high-profile ethical meltdowns dominating the
headlines in the past few
years, workers, consumers, and government
alike have begun to
hold
businesses—and
the people who run
them—to a higher standard. Federal legislation, passed
in the wake of the Enron fiasco, demands transparent
financial management and more accountability from
senior executives. And recognizing their key role in business success, a growing number of consumers and workers have begun to insist that companies play a proactive
role in making their communities—and often the world
community—better places. Sustainability—doing business today without harming the ability of future generations to meet their needs—has become a core issue in
the marketplace, driving business policies, investment
decisions, and consumer purchases on an unprecedented scale.29
1-5f  The Global Environment
The U.S. economy operates within the context of the global
environment, interacting continually with other economies.
In fact, over the past two decades, technology and free
trade have blurred the lines between individual economies
around the world. Technology has forged unprecedented
links among countries, making it cost effective—even efficient—to establish computer help centers in Mumbai to
serve customers in Boston, or to hire programmers in Buenos Aires to make websites for companies in Stockholm.
Not surprisingly, jobs have migrated to the lowest bidder
with the highest quality—regardless of where that bidder
is based.
Often, the lowest bidder is based in China or India.
Both economies are growing at breakneck speed, largely
because they attract enormous foreign investment.

Over the past couple of decades, China has been a
magnet for manufacturing jobs because of the high
population and low wages—about $3.50 per hour (including government-mandated benefits) versus about
$19.50 in the United States—although the gap is rapidly closing due to double-digit annual wage inflation
in China. And India has been especially adept at attracting high-tech jobs, in part because of their world-class,
English-speaking university graduates who are willing
to work for less than their counterparts around the
globe.30
The migration of jobs relates closely to the global
movement toward free trade. In 1995, a renegotiation of the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade (GATT)—signed by 125 countries—took bold
steps to lower tariffs (taxes on imports) and to reduce
trade restrictions worldwide. The result: goods move
more freely than ever across international boundaries. Individual groups of countries have gone even
further, creating blocs of nations with virtually unrestricted trade. Mexico, Canada, and the United States
have laid the groundwork for a free-trade mega-market
through the North American Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA), and 25 European
countries have created a
free trade An international
powerful free-trading bloc
economic and political movement
designed to help goods and services
through the European
flow more freely across international
Union, which has been
boundaries.
weakened by a severe,
General Agreement on
ongoing financial crisis.
Tariffs and Trade (GATT) An
The free-trade movement
international trade agreement that
has lowered prices and
has taken bold steps to lower tariffs
increased quality across
and promote free trade worldwide.
virtually every product
CHAPTER 1: Business Now: Change Is the Only Constant

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

15

category as competition becomes truly global. We’ll
discuss these issues and their implications in more
depth in Chapter 3.

A Multi-Pronged Threat In the past decade
alone, war, terrorism, disease, and natural disasters have
taken a horrific toll in human lives across the globe. The
economic toll has been devastating as well, affecting
businesses around the world. The 9/11 terrorist attacks
in New York and Washington, D.C., decimated the travel
industry and led to multibillion-dollar government outlays for Homeland Security. In 2002, a terrorist bombing
at an Indonesian nightclub killed nearly 200 people, destroying tourism on the holiday island of Bali. Similarly,
the 2015 terror attacks in Paris dealt a devastating blow
to tourism throughout Europe, which was already struggling to handle an overwhelming refugee crisis. The
2003 deadly epidemic of the SARS flu dealt a powerful
blow to the economies of Hong Kong, Beijing, and Toronto. And the Ebola outbreak of 2014 had a catastrophic
impact on several impoverished African economies that
could least afford the hit. Less than two years later, the
Indian Ocean tsunami wiped out the fishing industry on
long swaths of the Indian and Sri Lankan coastlines and
crippled the booming Thai tourism industry. That same
year, in 2005, Hurricane Katrina destroyed homes and
businesses alike and brought the Gulf Coast oil industry
to a virtual standstill. In 2012, Hurricane Sandy wreaked
$50 billion of economic damage on the eastern seaboard

states. And in 2013, Typhoon Haiyan decimated the Philippines. The wars in Afghanistan and Iraq—while a boon
to the defense industry—have dampened the economic
potential of both areas. With nationalism on the rise, and
growing religious and ethnic tensions around the world,
the global economy may continue to suffer collateral
damage.31

1-6

B USINESS AND YOU: MAKING
IT PERSONAL

Whatever your career choice—from video game developer to real-estate agent, to web designer—business will
affect your life. Both the broader economy and your own
business skills will influence the level of your personal financial success. In light of these factors, making the right
career choice can be a bit scary. But the good news is that
experts advise graduating students to “Do what you love.”
This is a hardheaded strategy, not softhearted puffery. Following your passion makes dollars and sense in today’s
environment, which values less-routine abilities such
as creativity, communication, and caring. These abilities
tend to be more rewarding for most people than routine,
programmable skills that computers can easily emulate.
Following your passion doesn’t guarantee a fat paycheck,
but it does boost your chances of both financial and personal success.32

THE BIG PICTURE
Business today is complex, global, and faster
moving than ever before. Looking forward,
the rate of change seems likely to accelerate yet further.
Although the full impact of the global economic crisis is still
unclear, China and India seem poised to gain economic clout,
raising worldwide competition to a whole new level. Technology

16

will continue to change the business landscape. And a new focus
on ethics and social responsibility will likely transform the role of
business in society. This book will focus on the impact of change
in every facet of business, from management to marketing,
to money, with an emphasis on how the elements of business
relate to each other and how business as a whole relates to you.

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

CAREERS IN BUSINESS
Manager of New Media
Work with marketing team to determine what motivates
and inspires consumers. Lead development and execution
of digital marketing campaigns across a variety of platforms
to build a deep, meaningful, and genuine relationship
with consumers. Develop and manage interactive viral
campaigns, integrate interactive media into the overall

STUDY TOOLS

business strategy. According to Salary.com, the median
base salary for social media marketing managers in 2016
was $93,659, although there was significant variation
based on company, location, industry, experience, and
benefits. Most new media positions require experience
in the field and a four-year degree in either business or
communication. Many also prefer a master’s degree in
business (an MBA).

1

LOCATED AT BACK OF THE TEXTBOOK
■■

Rip-Out Chapter Review Card

■■

Gain unique perspectives on key concepts with new concept
videos in the e-book
Increase your comprehension with online homework and
quizzes

■■

■■

Study with existing flashcards and make your own

CHAPTER 1: Business Now: Change Is the Only Constant
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

17

2

Economics:

The Framework for Business

LEARNING OBJECTIVES
2-1 Define economics and discuss the evolving global economic crisis
2-2 Analyze the impact of fiscal and monetary policy on the economy
2-3 Explain and evaluate the free market system and supply and demand
2-4 Explain and evaluate planned market systems
2-5 Describe the trend toward mixed market systems

Remember to visit

PAGE 37
for additional

STUDY TOOLS

2-6 Discuss key terms and tools to evaluate economic performance

2-1

ECONOMICS: NAVIGATING A CRISIS

In September 2008, the United States plunged into a deep economic crisis. The
banking system hovered on the edge of collapse. Property values plummeted,
and home foreclosure rates soared. Massive layoffs put more than a million
Americans out of work. By the end of the year, the stock market had lost
more than a third of its value, and financial turmoil in the United States
had sparked sequential economic shocks from Europe to
economy A financial and
social system of how resources
South America, to Asia and beyond. The outlook was grim.
flow through society, from
production to distribution, to
consumption.

economics The study of the
choices that people, companies,
and governments make in
allocating society’s resources.

macroeconomics The
study of a country’s overall
economic dynamics, such as
the employment rate, the gross
domestic product, and taxation
policies.

18

How did this happen?
Why? How could the
economy get back on
track?
Understanding these
issues—and how the government, businesses, and
individuals
responded
to them—requires understanding
some
basic

definitions: The economy is essentially a financial and
social system. It represents the flow of resources
through society, from production to distribution, to
consumption. Economics is the study of the choices
that people, companies, and governments make in allocating those resources. The field of economics falls
into two core categories: macroeconomics and microeconomics. Macroeconomics is the study of a country’s overall economic dynamics, such as the
employment rate, the gross domestic product, and

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Rawpixel.com/Shutterstock.com

After studying this chapter, you will be able to:

taxation policies. While macroeconomic issues may
seem abstract, they directly affect your day-to-day life,
influencing key variables such as what jobs will be available for you, how much cash you’ll actually take home
after taxes, or how much you can buy with that cash in
any given month. Microeconomics focuses on
smaller economic units such as individual consumers,
families, and individual businesses. Both macroeconomics and microeconomics have played an integral
role in the global economic crisis.
2-1a  Global Economic Crisis:

How Did This Happen?

The seeds of the crisis were planted more than a decade
ago, during a time of prosperity. Through the last half
of the 1990s, America enjoyed unprecedented growth.
­Unemployment was low, productivity was high, inflation was low, and the real standard of living for the average American rose significantly. The American economy
grew by more than $2.4 trillion, a jump of nearly 33%
in just five years. But the scene changed for the worse
when the dot-com bubble burst in 2000, followed by
the 9/11 terrorist attacks in 2001. As the stock market
dropped and unemployment rose, economic experts

“E
Tconomics
he chief business
is very useful
of the as
a
American
form of employment
people is business”
for
economists.”
C A LV I N C O O L I D G E
— J O H N K E N N E T H G AAL M
B RE AR II CT AH N, EPCROENSOI DMEI NS TT

feared that the country was hovering on the brink of a
full-blown recession.1
In an effort to avert recession by increasing the money
supply and encouraging investment, the Federal Reserve—
the nation’s central bank—decreased interest rates from
6.5% in mid-2000 to 1.25% by the end of 2002. As a result,
the economy was awash with money, but opportunities to
invest yielded paltry returns. This is when subprime mortgage loans came into play. Most experts define subprime
mortgages as loans to borrowers with low credit scores,
high debt-to-income ratios, or other signs of a reduced ability to repay the money they borrow.
These subprime mortgage loans were attractive
microeconomics The study
to borrowers and lenders
of smaller economic units such
alike. For the borrowers,
as individual consumers, families,
getting a loan suddenly beand individual businesses.
came a cinch, and for the
CHAPTER 2: Economics: The Framework for Business

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

19

A Trillion Dollars? Say What?

■■

■■

■■

If you had started spending a million dollars a day—every
day, without fail—at the start of the Roman Empire, you still
wouldn’t have spent a trillion dollars by 2016; in fact, you’d
have more than $250 billion left over.
One trillion dollars, laid end-to-end, would stretch farther
than the distance from the earth to the sun. You could also
wrap your chain of bills more than 12,000 times around the
earth’s equator.
If you were to fly a jet at the speed of sound, spooling out a roll
of dollar bills behind you, it would take you more than 14 years
to release a trillion dollars. But your plane probably couldn’t

carry the
roll, since
it would
weigh more
than one
million tons.
Turning the
economy around
may take even
more than a trillion
dollars, but make no
mistake when you
hear those numbers
thrown around on the
news—a trillion dollars
is an awful lot of money!2

themselves “upside down”—they owed their lenders more
first time ever, hundreds of thousands of people could afthan the value of their homes. Once this happened, they
ford homes. The lenders were all too willing to give them
couldn’t refinance to lower their payments. Foreclosure
mortgage loans, sometimes with little or no documentarates climbed at an increasing pace. RealtyTrac, a leading
tion (such as proof of income), and sometimes with little
online marketplace for foreclosure properties, reported
or no money down. As demand for homes skyrocketed,
that foreclosure rates were 33% higher in 2010 than they
prices continued to rise year after year. Borrowers took
were in all of 2009. In 2011, the foreclosure rate dropped
on adjustable-rate loans assuming that when their loans
to the lowest level since 2007, when the recession began.
adjusted up—usually sharply up—they could simply reAnd by January 2014, the inventory of foreclosed homes
finance their now-more-valuable homes for a new low
had experienced 16 consecutive months of year-to-year
starter rate and maybe even pull out some cash.
Subprime loans were attractive to lenders because
double-digit declines, signaling that the fragile economic
they provided a higher return than many other invest­
recovery had finally taken hold.3
ments, and—given the growth in housing prices—they
As mortgage values dropped, financial institutions
seemed relatively low risk. Banks and investment houses inbegan to feel the pressure—especially firms such as Bear
vented a range of stunningly complex financial instruments
Stearns that specialized in trading mortgage-backed secuto slice up and resell the mortgages as specialized securirities, and firms such as Washington Mutual that focused
ties. Hedge funds swapped the new securities, convinced
on selling subprime mortgages. When financial institutions
that they were virtually risk-free. With a lack of regulation—
actually began to face collapse, a wave of fear washed over
or any other government oversight—financial institutions
the entire banking industry. Banks became unwilling to
did not maintain sufficient reserves
lend money to each other or to cliin case those mortgage-backed
ents, which meant that funds were
funds lost value.
not available for businesses to fi“The financial crisis
And they did indeed lose
nance either day-to-day operations
is a stark reminder
value. In 2006, housing prices
or longer-term growth. Company
that transparency
peaked, and in the months that
after company—from General Mofollowed, prices began falling pretors to Yahoo!, to American Express,
and disclosure are
cipitously (see Exhibit 2.1), dropto countless small employers—
essential in today’s
ping nearly 35% from the market
began to announce layoffs. The
marketplace.”
peak in 2006 through the market
December 2008 unemployment
trough in 2009. Increasing numrate hit 7.2%. About 2.6 million
— U . S . S E N AT O R J A C K R E E D
bers of subprime borrowers found
Americans lost their jobs in 2008,

20

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

iStock.com/Selensergen

Between stimulating the economy and managing the federal
debt, “a trillion dollars” is a figure you may have heard a lot
lately. But getting your mind around what that actually means
may be a little tricky, since it’s just so much money. To understand the true magnitude of a trillion dollars, consider this:

Exhibit 2.1

House Price Index
200

175

150

125
2.28.06
4.30.06
6.30.06
8.31.06
10.31.06
12.31.06
2.28.07
4.30.07
6.30.07
8.31.07
10.31.07
12.31.07
2.28.08
4.30.08
6.30.08
8.31.08
10.31.08
12.31.08
2.28.09
4.30.09
6.30.09
8.31.09
10.31.09
12.31.09
2.29.10
4.30.10
6.30.10
8.31.10
10.31.10
12.31.10
2.29.10
4.30.11
6.30.11
8.31.11

Case-Shiller House Index –U.S. 20-City Index

225

Date

Source: Housing’s Rise and Fall in 20 Cities, December 27, 2011, The New York Times website, http://www
.nytimes.com/interactive/2011/05/31/business/economy/case-shiller-index.html#city/IND20, accessed
January 25, 2012.

making 2008 the worst year for jobs since 1945. And the
unemployment rate continued to rise, hitting 9.3% in 2009
and 9.6% in 2010, leading to total Great Recession job
losses of nearly 8 million, many of which will never come
back as the economy continues to change and old skills
become obsolete.4 The national average unemployment
rate began to drop in late 2011 and continued to trend
down throughout 2014, 2015, and 2016, another sign that
the economic recovery has taken hold.
2-1b  Moving in a Better Direction
Although the benefits were not immediately obvious in the
face of a downward trend, the federal government and
the Federal Reserve—known as “the Fed”—intervened in the
economy at an unprecedented level to prevent total financial disaster. In March 2008, the Fed staved off b
­ ankruptcy at
Bear Stearns. In early September 2008, the U.S. Department
of the Treasury seized Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which
owned about half of the U.S. mortgage market. A week later,
the Fed bailed out tottering global insurance giant AIG with
an $85 billion loan. But the bleeding continued.
The negative spiral spurred Congress to pass a controversial $700 billion economic bailout plan in early October
2008, called TARP (the Troubled Assets Relief Program). By
the end of the year, the Treasury had spent the first half of
that money investing in banks, although early results were
imperceptible for the economy. Just as the Treasury began to release funds to the banks, GM and Chrysler, two
of the Big Three U.S. automakers, announced they also
desperately needed a bailout. Both firms suggested that

bankruptcy was imminent without government
assistance. (Ford, the other member of the Big
Three, also admitted to financial problems but
claimed that it was not in the dire straits faced
by its domestic competitors.) Facing the loss of
more than 2.5 million jobs related to the auto
industry, the Treasury agreed to spend a portion
of what remained of the $700 billion in a partial
auto industry bailout.5 Although much of the
public railed against the expensive government
bailout program, by 2010 it appeared likely that
TARP could end up costing taxpayers far less
than anticipated, or even nothing, as insurance
companies and banks began to break even, or in
many cases earn profits, and pay back their government loans.6
As the new administration began, President Obama proposed, and Congress passed, an
$825 billion economic stimulus package called
the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act,
designed to turn the economy around over the
next two years. The plan included cutting taxes, building
infrastructure, and investing $150 billion in green energy.
In late 2011, the economy began to turn around at a very
slow pace. Employment grew slowly for 49 months in a
row—the best run since at least World War II. Although
employment numbers improved, many people traded
good-paying jobs for part-time work and/or lower-paying
positions. This has constrained incomes and restrained
consumer spending in the years since.7
All of these moves by the federal government and the
Federal Reserve are part of fiscal and monetary policy.

2-2

MANAGING THE ECONOMY
THROUGH FISCAL
AND MONETARY POLICY

While the free market drives performance in the American
economy, the federal government and the F­ ederal Reserve
can help shape performance. During the recent crisis, both
the government and the Fed have taken proactive—
some say heavy-handed—roles to mitigate this economic

“Government does not solve
problems; it subsidizes them.”
—U.S. PRESIDENT RONALD REAGAN
CHAPTER 2: Economics: The Framework for Business

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

21

2-2a  Fiscal Policy

iStock.com/Talaj

contraction. The overarching goal is controlled, sustained growth, and both fiscal and monetary policy
can help achieve this objective.

Fiscal policy refers to government efforts to influence the economy through taxation
and spending decisions that are
designed to encourage growth,
boost employment, and curb
inflation. Clearly, fiscal strategies
are closely tied to political philosophy. But regardless of politics, most
economists agree that lower taxes can boost
the economy by leaving more money in people’s
pockets for them to spend or invest. Most also agree
that government spending can boost the economy
in the short term by providing jobs, such as mail carrier,
bridge repairer, or park ranger; and in the long term by investing in critical public assets, such as a national renewable energy grid. Done well, both taxation and spending
can offer economic benefits. The tricky part is finding the
right balance between the two approaches. As American
economist Henry Hazlitt pointed out, it’s important to keep
in mind that “[e]ither immediately or ultimately, every dollar of government spending must be raised through a dollar of taxation; once we look at the matter in this way, the
supposed miracles of government spending will appear in
another light.”
2-2b  Debt Ceiling/Fiscal Cliff
In mid-2011, the U.S. economy shuddered again as the
news headlines screamed with dire warnings about a national or even international
economic meltdown when
we hit the federal debt ceilfiscal policy Government
efforts to influence the economy
ing. What did this mean?
through taxation and spending.
The debt ceiling is the maximum amount Congress
budget surplus Overage
that occurs when revenue is
lets the government borhigher than expenses over a given
row. In theory, this is meant
period of time.
to limit the amount that the
budget deficit Shortfall that
government can borrow,
occurs when expenses are higher
but in practice, voting on
than revenue over a given period
the debt ceiling happens
of time.
separately from voting on
federal debt The sum of
taxes and spending, so the
all the money that the federal
debt ceiling ends up begovernment has borrowed over
ing mostly about whether
the years and not yet repaid.
the federal government

22

can pay for debts that it has already incurred. Typically, debt ceiling hikes are fairly routine; in fact,
Congress has raised the debt ceiling 74 times since
1962, and ten times since 2001, all with little or no notice. But as federal debt began to nudge the ceiling in 2011, it garnered unprecedented political
and journalistic attention because various political groups saw the issue as an
opportunity to further their
political agenda. Those who
wanted to raise the debt ceiling
portrayed others as irresponsible
buffoons who were willing to shut
down the government simply to make a
point without any real long-term change in
spending. Those who did not want to raise the
debt ceiling argued that the others are spendthrift
bureaucrats who must learn to live within their means
like the Americans who elected them.
After weeks of high-profile wrangling, Congress finally agreed to raise the debt ceiling, which temporarily
averted a shutdown crisis, but the deal they reached to do
so created the fiscal cliff. The fiscal cliff was a package of
draconian across-the-board spending cuts and sharp tax
hikes scheduled to hit at the same time that could dramatically decrease the U.S. budget deficit. Going over the
fiscal cliff could potentially cripple the U.S. economy, and
possibly even cause the United States to default on some
of its debt, which could send world markets into a tailspin.
But once again, Congress could not reach a reasonable
long-term agreement, so they simply passed last-minute
legislation that pushed the really tough tax and spending
decisions farther down the road. The federal government
actually did shut down for 16 days in October 2013 after
much congressional squabbling failed to produce a budget agreement. The government reopened with passage
of another temporary agreement that again delayed the
tough fiscal choices. If the country continues to fracture
along political lines, it may become increasingly difficult to
reach a federal budget agreement, leading to more regular
government shutdowns.8
Every year, the government must create a budget,
or a financial plan, that outlines expected revenue from
taxes and fees, and expected spending. If revenue is
higher than spending, the government incurs a budget
surplus (rare in recent years, but usually quite welcome!).
If spending is higher than revenue, the government incurs a budget deficit and must borrow money to cover
the shortfall. The sum of all the money borrowed over
the years and not yet repaid is the total federal debt.
Exhibit 2.2 shows key sources of revenue and key expenses

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Exhibit 2.2

Federal Government Revenue and Expenses
Federal Government Revenue
Fiscal 2017 Estimated (billions of dollars)

Federal Government Expenses
Fiscal 2017 Estimated (billions of dollars)

$295.8

National Defense
Individual
Income Taxes

$1,141.2
$1,788.0

Corporate
Income Taxes
Social
Security Taxes
Other

$418.7
TOTAL = $3,643.7

International Affairs

$490.7
$617.0
$567.6

$55.8
$302.7

Net Interest on Debt
Medicare
Income Security

$972.6

$605.0

Social Security
Health

$535.9

Other

TOTAL = $4,147.2

Source: Economic Report of the president, 2016, Table B–19. Federal receipts and outlays, by major category, and surplus or deficit, fiscal years 1950–2017, https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/docs
/ERP_2016_Book_Complete%20JA.pdf, accessed July 30, 2017.

for the federal government in 2011. Note that spending
significantly outstrips receipts, creating a one-year budget
deficit of more than a trillion dollars. Clearly, any additional
spending without corresponding tax increases could dramatically increase the shortfall.
As of early 2017, the total U.S. federal debt stood at
nearly $20 trillion, a staggering $61,000 for every U.S.
citizen.
The debt has only grown bigger every year since
1957, and the pace of growth will likely increase further in
the wake of the economic crisis. This matters to each taxpayer because as the government repays the debt—not
to mention paying the skyrocketing interest to finance
this debt—less and less money will be available for other
uses; services may be eliminated (e.g., student loans, veterans’ benefits, housing subsidies), or taxes will soar, or
perhaps even both.
2-2c  Monetary Policy

Monetary policy refers to actions that shape the
economy by influencing interest rates and the supply of
money. The Federal Reserve—essentially the central bank
of the United States—manages U.S. monetary policy.
For the first time in its history, the Fed has also taken an
activist role in bailing out and propping up shaky financial firms during the economic crisis. Other Fed functions
include banking services for member banks and the federal government.

The Fed is headed by a seven-member Board of Governors. The president appoints each member of the Board
to serve a single 14-year term—though a member can also
complete a former member’s unexpired term and still be
appointed to a full term of his or her own. These terms are
staggered, with one expiring every two years, so that no
single president can appoint all of the members. This structure helps ensure that the Fed can act independently of
political pressure.
In addition to setting monetary policy, the Board
of Governors oversees the operation of the 12 Federal
Reserve Banks that carry out Fed policies and perform
banking services for commercial banks in their
districts. Interestingly, the federal government does
not own these Federal Reserve Banks. Instead, they’re
owned by the member commercial banks in their individual ­districts.
The president appoints
one of the seven members
of the Board of Governors to
monetary policy Federal
serve as its chair—a position
Reserve decisions that shape the
economy by influencing interest
so powerful that many conrates and the supply of money.
sider him or her the second
most powerful person on
commercial banks
Privately owned financial
earth. For nearly 19 years, the
institutions that accept demand
chair was Alan Greenspan.
deposits and make loans and
When Greenspan retired in
provide other services for the
early 2006, President Bush
public.
appointed economist Ben
CHAPTER 2: Economics: The Framework for Business

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

23

What Does It Really Mean to Call an Uber?

www.hollandfoto.net/Shutterstock.com

If you’re like most people, the first thing that comes
to mind when you think about “calling an Uber” is
hailing a car for a local trip or maybe arranging a
food delivery to satisfy a craving via UberEATS.
But if you are a member of the entertainment
elite, calling an Uber may well mean hailing
a helicopter via UberChopper to get to the
Cannes Film Festival or to avoid the bumperto-bumper traffic between Manhattan
and the Hamptons on a steamy New York
weekend. Airbus expanded its private
helicopter service into all-new markets by

Bernanke to the chair role. Bernanke led the Fed’s proactive
efforts to turn the ailing economy around. In early 2014, the
Senate confirmed economist Janet Yellen as new chair of
the Fed. Yellen is the first female chair, and she has focused
primarily on fighting unemployment by encouraging economic expansion.
The core purpose of the Fed is to influence the size
of the money supply—or the total amount of money
within the overall economy. Clearly, you know what
money is. But the formal definition of money is anything
generally accepted as a medium of exchange, a measure
of value, or a means of
payment. The two most
money supply The total
commonly used definiamount of money within the
tions of the money supply
overall economy.
are M1 and M2:
money Anything generally
accepted as a medium of
■■ M1: All currency—
exchange, a measure of value,
paper bills and metal
or a means of payment.
coins—plus checking
M1 money supply Includes
accounts and traveler’s
all currency plus checking
checks.
accounts and traveler’s checks.

M2 money supply Includes

■■

most savings accounts,
money market accounts, and certificates
of deposit (low-risk
savings vehicles with a
fixed term, typically less
than one year).

all of M1 money supply plus most
savings accounts, money market
accounts, and certificates of
deposit.

open market operations
The Federal Reserve function of
buying and selling government
securities, which include treasury
bonds, notes, and bills.

24

M2: All of M1 plus

By mid-2016, the M1
money supply totaled

joining forces with Uber in 2016. The partnership was
launched as demand from some of Airbus’s traditional
customers—oil and gas companies—dropped in the
wake of falling commodity prices. But Uber has
expanded beyond just helicopter rides. In India,
Uber’s services include on-demand rickshaws, and
in Turkey, it offers on-demand boats. It’s fun to
imagine what calling an Uber might mean in the
future—on-demand drones? On-demand robots?
Time will tell.9

about $3.18 trillion, and the M2 version of the money supply totaled about $12.7 trillion. In practice, the term “money
supply” most often refers to M2. (Note that credit cards are
not part of the money supply, although they do have an
unmistakable impact on the flow of money through the
economy.)10
When the economy contracts, the Fed typically increases the money supply. If more money is available, interest rates usually drop, encouraging businesses to expand
and consumers to spend. But when prices begin to rise, the
Fed attempts to reduce the money supply. Ideally, if less
money is available, interest rates will rise. This will reduce
spending, which should bring inflation under control.
Specifically, the Fed uses three key tools to expand and contract the money supply: open market operations, discount
rate changes, and reserve requirement changes.

Open Market Operations This is the Fed’s most
frequently used tool. Open market operations involve buying and selling government securities, which
include treasury bonds, notes, and bills. These securities
are the IOUs the government issues to finance its deficit
spending.
How do open market operations work? When the
economy is weak, the Fed buys government securities on
the open market. When the Fed pays the sellers of these
securities, money previously held by the Fed is put into circulation. This directly stimulates spending. In addition, any
of the additional funds supplied by the Fed that are deposited in banks will allow banks to make more loans, making
credit more readily available. This encourages even more
spending and further stimulates the economy.

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Looking to Multiply Your Money? Look No Further
Than Your Local Bank!
1933 Congress established the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC). The FDIC insures deposits in banks and
thrift institutions for up to $100,000 per customer, per bank. In
the wake of the banking crisis, the FDIC temporarily increased its
coverage to $250,000 per depositor at the end of 2008. Since the
FDIC began operations on January 1, 1934, no depositor has lost a
single cent of insured funds as a result of a bank failure.

When inflation is a concern, the Fed sells securities.
Buyers of the securities write checks to the Fed to pay for
securities they bought, and the Fed withdraws these funds
from banks. With fewer funds, banks must cut back on the
loans they make, credit becomes tighter, and the money
supply shrinks. This reduces spending and cools off the inflationary pressures in the economy.
Open market operations are set by the aptly named
Federal Open Market Committee, which consists of the
seven members of the Board of Governors and 5 of the 12
presidents of the Federal Reserve district banks. Each year,
the Federal Open Market Committee holds eight regularly
scheduled meetings to make decisions about open market operations, although they do hold additional meetings
when the need arises. Both businesses and markets closely
watch Open Market Committee rate setting and outlook
statements in order to guide decision making.

discount rate, banks can obtain funds at a lower cost and
use these funds to make more loans to their own customers. With the cost of acquiring funds from the Fed lower,
interest rates on bank loans also tend to fall. The result: businesses and individuals are more likely to borrow money and
spend it, which stimulates the economy. Clearly, the Fed is
most likely to reduce the discount rate during recessions.
In fact, during the early months of the financial crisis, the
Fed cut the rate to less than 1%. The Fed kept the rate well
below 1% throughout the recovery, eventually nudging it
up at the end of 2015 and again at the end of 2016. If the
recovery continues, The Fed is expected to continue raising rates slowly—very slowly. But in response to inflation—
usually a sign of a rapidly
expanding economy—the
Federal Deposit
Fed usually increases the
Insurance Corporation
(FDIC) A federal agency
discount rate. In response,
that insures deposits in banks
banks raise the interest rates
and thrift institutions for up to
they charge their custom$250,000 per customer, per bank.
ers. Fewer ­
businesses and
discount rate The rate of
individuals are willing to
interest that the Federal Reserve
take loans, which ultimately
charges when it loans funds to
slows down the economy
banks.
and reduces inflation.11

Discount Rate Changes Just as you can borrow
money from your bank, your bank can borrow funds from
the Fed. And just as you must pay interest on your loan,
your bank must pay interest on loans from the Fed. The
discount rate is the interest rate the Fed charges on
its loans to commercial banks. When the Fed reduces the

Syda Productions/Shutterstock.com

Everyone knows that banks help people save money, but most
people don’t realize that banks actually create money. While the
process is complex, a simplified example illustrates the point. Say
you deposit $5,000 in the bank. How much money do you have?
Obviously, $5,000. Now imagine that your neighbor Anne goes
to the bank for a loan. In line with Federal Reserve requirements,
the bank must hold onto about 10% of its funds, so it loans Anne
$4,500. She uses the money to buy a used car from your neighbor
Jake, who deposits the $4,500 in the bank. How much money
does Jake have? Clearly, $4,500. How much money do you have?
Still, $5,000. Thanks to the banking system, our “money supply”
has increased from $5,000 to $9,500. Multiply this phenomenon
times millions of banking transactions, and you can see why cold,
hard cash accounts for only about 10% of the total U.S. M2 money
supply. But what happens if everyone goes to the bank at once
to withdraw their money? The banking system would clearly
collapse. And in fact, in 1930 and 1931, a run on the banks caused
wave after wave of devastating bank failures. Panicked customers
lost all their savings, ushering in the worst years of the Great
Depression. To restore public confidence in the banking system, in

CHAPTER 2: Economics: The Framework for Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

25

Reserve Requirement Changes The Fed requires
that all of its member banks hold funds, called “reserves,”
equal to a stated percentage of the deposits held by
their customers. This percentage is called the reserve
requirement (or required reserve ratio). The reserve
requirement helps protect depositors who may want to
withdraw their money without notice. Currently, the reserve requirement stands at about 10%, depending on the
size and type of a bank’s deposits. If the Fed increases the
reserve requirement, banks must hold more funds, meaning they will have fewer funds available to make loans.
This makes credit tighter and causes interest rates to rise.
If the Fed decreases the reserve requirement, some of the
funds that banks were required to hold become available
for loans. This increases the availability of credit and causes
interest rates to drop. Since changes in the reserve requirement can have a dramatic impact on both the economy
and the financial health of individual banks, the Fed uses
this tool quite infrequently.

“The U.S. economy is 70% based
on consumer spending.”
—T IME M AG A Z INE

are willing to pay its fees. And as the government’s bank, the
Fed maintains the federal government’s checking account
and keeps the U.S. currency supply in good condition.

2-3

CAPITALISM: THE FREE
MARKET SYSTEM

He ar tla nd Ar

ts/ Shut ter sto

ck .co m

It’s a simple fact—more clear now than ever before—no
one can get everything they want all of the time. We live in
a world of finite resources, which means that societies
must determine how to distribute resources among their
Other Fed Functions In addition to monetary
members. An economic system is a structure for allopolicy, the Fed has several other core functions, incating
limited resources. Over time and around the globe,
cluding regulating financial institutions and pronations
have instituted different economic systems. But a
viding banking services both for the government
careful
analysis suggests that no system is perfect,
and for banks. In its role as a regulator, the
which may explain why there isn’t one standard
Fed sets and enforces rules of conduct for
approach. The next sections of this chapter exambanks and oversees mergers and acquisiine each basic type of economic system and extions to ensure fairness and compliance
plore the trend toward mixed economies.
with government policy. The Fed will
The economic system of the United States
likely become even more proactive
is
called
capitalism, also known as a “private
regarding regulation in the wake
enterprise
system” or a “free market system.”
of the financial crisis. In its role as
Brought
to
prominence by Adam Smith in the
a banker for banks, the Fed coordi1700s, capitalism is based on private ownnates the check-clearing
ership, economic freedom, and fair comprocess for checks on
petition. One core capitalist principle is
behalf of any banks that
the paramount importance of individuals, innovation, and hard work. In a capireserve requirement A
talist economy, individuals, businesses, or
rule set by the Fed, which specifies
nonprofit organizations privately own the
the minimum amount of reserves
vast
majority of enterprises (with only a
(or funds) a bank must hold,
small fraction owned by the government).
expressed as a percentage of the
bank’s deposits.
These private-sector businesses are free to
make their own choices regarding everyeconomic system A
structure for allocating limited
thing from what they will produce to how
resources.
much they will charge, to whom they will
hire and fire. Correspondingly, individuals
capitalism An economic
system—also known as the
are free to choose what they will buy,
private enterprise or free market
how much they are willing to pay, and
Adam Smith (1723–1790) has
system—based on private
where they will work.
often been called the “father of
ownership, economic freedom,
To thrive in a free enterprise sysand fair competition.
modern economics.”
tem, companies must offer value to

26

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

their customers—otherwise, their customers will choose
to go elsewhere. Businesses must also offer value to their
employees and suppliers in order to attract top-quality talent and supplies. As companies compete to attract the best
resources and offer the best values, quality goes up, prices
remain reasonable, and choices proliferate, raising the standard of living in the economy as a whole.

For capitalism to succeed, the system must ensure some fundamental rights—or freedoms—to all of the people who live
within the economy.
■■

■■

T he right to own a business and keep after-tax profits:
Remember that capitalism doesn’t guarantee that
anyone will actually earn profits. Nor does it promise
that there won’t be taxes. But if you do earn profits,
you get to keep your after-tax income and spend
it however you see fit (within the limits of the law,
of course). This right acts as a powerful motivator
for business owners in a capitalist economy; the
lower the tax rate, the higher the motivation. The
U.S. government strives to maintain low tax rates
to preserve the after-tax profit incentive that plays
such a pivotal role in the free enterprise system.
The right to private property: This means that individuals and private businesses can buy, sell, and
use ­property—which includes land, machines, and
­buildings—in any way that makes sense to them. This
right also includes the right to will property to family
members. The only exceptions to private property
rights are minimal government restrictions designed
to protect the greater good. You can’t, for instance,
use your home or ­business to produce cocaine,
abuse children, or spew toxic smoke into the air.

■■

The right to free choice: Capitalism relies on economic
freedom. People and businesses must be free to buy
(or not buy) according to their wishes. They must
be free to choose where to work (or not work) and
where to live (or not live). Freedom of choice directly
feeds competition, creating a compelling incentive for
business owners to offer the best goods and services
at the lowest prices. U.S. government trade policies
boost freedom of choice by encouraging a wide array
of both domestic and foreign producers to compete
freely for our dollars.

■■

The right to fair competition: A capitalist system depends on fair competition among businesses to drive
higher quality, lower prices, and more choices. Capitalism can’t achieve its potential if unfair ­practices—such

ValeStock/Shutterstock.com

2-3a  The Fundamental Rights of Capitalism

Which of the four degrees of competition
does the soft drink market represent?

as deceptive advertising, predatory pricing, and
broken contracts—mar the free compe­titive environment. The government’s role is to create a level playing
field by establishing regulations and monitoring the
competition to ensure compliance.
2-3b  Four Degrees of Competition
Although competition is essential for the free market system to function, not all competition works the same. Different industries experience different degrees of competition,
ranging from pure competition to monopolies.
■■

Pure competition is a market structure with
many competitors selling virtually identical products. Since customers can’t (or won’t) distinguish
one product from another, no single producer
has any control over the price. And new producers can easily enter and leave purely competitive
markets. In today’s U.S. economy, examples of pure
competition have virtually disappeared. Agriculture
probably comes closest—corn is basically corn, for
example—but with the dramatic growth of huge
corporate farms and the success of major agricultural cooperatives
such as Sunkist and
pure competition A
Sun-Maid, the nummarket
structure with many
ber of competitors
competitors selling virtually
in agriculture has
identical products. Barriers to
dwindled, and new
entry are quite low.
farmers have trouble
CHAPTER 2: Economics: The Framework for Business

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

27

entering the market. Not only that, segments of
the agriculture market—such as organic farms
and hormone-free dairies—have emerged with hit
products that command much higher prices than
the competition.

Monopolistic competition is a market structure

with many competitors selling differentiated products. (Caution! Monopolistic competition is quite different from a monopoly, which we will cover shortly.)
Producers have some control over the price of their
wares, depending on the value that they offer their
customers. And new producers can fairly easily enter
categories marked by monopolistic competition.
In fact, in monopolistic competition, a successful
product usually attracts new suppliers quite quickly.
Examples of monopolistic competition include the
clothing industry and the restaurant business.
Think about the clothing business, for a moment,
in local terms. How many firms do you know that
sell T-shirts? You could probably think of at least 50
without too much trouble. And the quality and price
are all over the board: designer T-shirts can sell for
well over $100, but plenty of options go for less than
$10. How hard would it be to start your own T-shirt
business? Probably not hard at all. In fact, chances
are strong that you know at least one person who
sells T-shirts on the side. In terms of product and
price variation, number of
firms, and ease of entry,
monopolistic
the T-shirt business clearly
competition
demonstrates the characA market structure with many
competitors selling differentiated
teristics of monopolistic
products. Barriers to entry are low.
competition.
oligopoly A market structure
■■ Oligopoly is a market

with only a handful of competitors
selling products that can be
similar or different. Barriers to
entry are typically high.

monopoly A market structure
with one producer completely
dominating the industry, leaving
no room for any significant
competitors. Barriers to entry tend
to be virtually insurmountable.
natural monopoly A
market structure with one
company as the supplier of a
product because the nature of that
product makes a single supplier
more efficient than multiple,
competing ones. Most natural
monopolies are government
sanctioned and regulated.

28

structure with only a
handful of competitors
selling products that
can be similar or different. The retail gasoline
business and the car
manufacturing industry, for instance, are
both oligopolies, even
though gas stations offer very similar products,
and car companies offer
quite different models
and features. Other
examples of oligopoly
include the soft drink
industry, the computer

GongTo/Shutterstock.com

■■

In April 2016, the European Union filed
antitrust charges against Google for forcing
manufacturers to load 11 undeletable apps
onto their Android-based smartphones.
If Google is found guilty, it faces up to
$7.5 billion in fines.

business, and network television. Breaking into a market characterized by oligopoly can be tough because
it typically requires a huge upfront investment.
You could start making T-shirts in your kitchen, for
instance, but you’d need a pretty expensive facility to
start manufacturing cars. Oligopolies typically avoid
intense price competition, since they have nothing
to gain—every competitor simply makes less money.
When price wars do flare up, the results can be devastating for entire industries.
■■

Monopoly is a market structure with just a single
producer completely dominating the industry, leaving
no room for any significant competitors. Monopolies
usually aren’t good for anyone but the company that
has control, since without competition there isn’t any
incentive to hold down prices or increase quality and
choices. Because monopolies can harm the economy,
most are illegal according to federal legislation such as
the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890 and the Clayton Antitrust Act of 1914. Microsoft is the latest example of an
industry giant that ran afoul of antimonopoly laws due
to its position and policies in the software business.
Even though Microsoft is not an actual monopoly,
it was convicted of “monopolistic practices” that undermined fair ­competition.

However, in a few instances, the government not
only allows monopolies but actually encourages them.
This usually occurs when it would be too inefficient for
each competitor to build its own infrastructure to serve
the public. A natural monopoly arises. Public utilities

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Exhibit 2.3

The Supply Curve and Demand Curve
22

20

20

Cur
ve

22

18

ply

16

14
12

Price per Pizza ($)

Sup

Price per Pizza ($)

16

18

10
8

14

m

10

an

d

8

6

6

4

4

2

2

0

De

12

Cu

rv

e

0
0

20

40

60

80

100

120

Quantity of Pizza Supplied per Day
(in Thousands)

offer a clear example. Would it really make sense for even
a handful of competitors to pipe neighborhoods separately for water? Clearly, that’s not practical. Just imagine
the chaos! Instead, the government has granted exclusive rights—or mono­polies—to individual companies for
limited geographic areas and then regulated them (with
mixed results) to ensure that they don’t abuse the privilege.
In addition to natural monopolies, the government grants
patents and copyrights, which create artificial monopoly
situations (at least temporarily) to encourage innovation.
2-3c  Supply and Demand: Fundamental

Principles of a Free Market System

In a free market system, the continual interplay between
buyers and sellers determines the selection of products and
prices available in the economy. If a business makes something that few people actually want, sales will be low, and
the firm will typically yank the product from the market.
Similarly, if the price of a product is too high, low sales will
dictate a price cut. But if a new good or service becomes
a hit, you can bet that similar offerings from other firms
will pop up almost immediately (unless barriers—such as
government-granted patents—prevent new entrants). The
concepts of supply and demand explain how the dynamic
interaction between buyers and sellers directly affects the
range of products and prices in the free market.

0

20

40

60

80

100

120

Quantity of Pizza Demanded per Day
(in Thousands)

Supply Supply refers to the quantity of products that
producers are willing to offer for sale at different market prices.
Since businesses seek to make as much profit as possible,
they are likely to produce more of a product that commands
a higher market price and less of a product that commands a
lower price. Think about it in terms of pizza. Assume it costs a
local restaurant about $5 to make a pizza. If the market price
for pizza hits, say, $20, you can bet that restaurant will start
cranking out pizza. But if the price drops to $6, the restaurant
has much less incentive to focus on pizza and will probably invest its limited resources in cooking other more pricey dishes.
The relationship between price and quantity from a
supplier standpoint can be shown on a graph called the
supply curve. The supply curve maps quantity on the xaxis (or horizontal axis) and price on the y-axis (or vertical axis).
In most categories, as the
price rises, the quantity prosupply The quantity of
duced rises correspondingly,
products that producers are
yielding a graph that curves
willing to offer for sale at different
market prices.
up as it moves to the right.
Exhibit 2.3 shows a p
­ ossible
supply curve The graphed
supply curve for pizza.
relationship between price and
Demand Demand
refers to the quantity of
products that consumers are willing to buy at

quantity from a supplier standpoint.

demand The quantity of
products that consumers are willing
to buy at different market prices.

CHAPTER 2: Economics: The Framework for Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

29

different market prices. Since consumers generally
seek to get the products they need (or want) at
the lowest possible prices, they tend to buy more
products with lower prices and fewer products
with higher prices. Pizza and tacos, for instance,
are both popular meals. But if pizza costs a lot less
than tacos, most people will get pizza more often
than tacos. Likewise, if the price of pizza were out of
hand, people would probably order tacos (or some
other option) more often, reserving their pizzaeating for special occasions.
The relationship between price and quantity
from a demand standpoint can be shown on a
graph called the demand curve. Like the supply
curve, the demand curve maps quantity on the
x-axis and price on the y-axis. But different from the
supply curve, the demand curve for most goods
and services slopes downward as it moves to the
right, since the quantity demanded tends to drop as
prices rise. Exhibit 2.3 shows how a demand curve
for pizza could look.

Exhibit 2.4

Equilibrium

Equilibrium Price It’s important to remember
that supply and demand don’t operate in a vacuum.
The con­stant interaction between the two forces helps
determine the market price in any given category. In
theory, market prices adjust toward the point where the
supply curve and the demand curve intersect (see
Exhibit 2.4). The price associated with this point of
intersection—the point where the quantity demanded
equals the quantity supplied—is called the equilibrium
price, and the quantity associated with this point is called
the “equilibrium quantity.”

2-4

PLANNED ECONOMIES:
SOCIALISM AND COMMUNISM

demand curve The graphed
relationship between price and
quantity from a customer demand
standpoint.

equilibrium price The price
associated with the point at which
the quantity demanded of a product
equals the quantity supplied.
socialism An economic system
based on the principle that the
government should own and operate
key enterprises that directly affect
public welfare.

30

In capitalist economies,
private ownership is paramount. Individuals own
businesses, and their personal fortunes depend on
their success in the free market. But in planned economies, the government plays
a more heavy-handed role
in controlling the economy.
The two key categories of
planned economies are
socialism and communism.

2-4a  Socialism

Socialism is an economic system based on the principle that the government should own and operate key
enterprises that directly affect public welfare, such as
utilities, telecommunications, and healthcare. Although
the official government goal is to run these enterprises
in the best interest of the overall public, inefficiencies and corruption often interfere with effectiveness.
Socialist economies also tend to have higher taxes,
which are designed to distribute wealth more evenly
through society. Tax revenues typically fund services
that citizens in free enterprise systems would have to
pay for themselves in countries with lower tax rates. Examples range from free childcare to free university education, to free public healthcare systems. Critics of the
recent government intervention in the U.S. economy
believe that the new moves have pushed us too far in a
socialist direction.
Most Western European countries—from Sweden to
Germany, to the United Kingdom—developed powerful
socialist economies in the decades after World War II. But
more recently, growth in these countries has languished.
Although many factors have contributed to the slowdown, the impact of high taxes on the profit incentive
and lavish social programs on the work incentive has

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

For years upon years, parents and grandparents have
counseled their children with this sage advice: “Waste not,
want not.” Yet somewhat ironically, this age-old wisdom
applies just as much to the on-demand economy, which
puts idle resources to work for the benefit of society. This
growing trend has radically changed consumer expectations in regards to sustainability. According to trendspotting
experts, younger consumers increasingly expect the
companies they buy from to create new sources of value
and to eliminate wasted resources in creative ways. The
reason: “When you can pay to use cars by the minute, access
office space by the hour, eat your food cooked by your
neighbors and more, then ‘traditional’ business processes
suddenly start to look even more wasteful.” Trendwatching.
com calls the upending of existing processes to reduce waste

capacity capture.
As this trend grows,
smart and dynamic
businesses will
need to use extraordinary creativity
to reengineer
their approach to
sustainability—
all while delivering ongoing
profitability.12

clearly played a role. Potential entrepreneurs may migrate
to countries that let them keep more of their profits, and
workers with abundant benefits may find themselves
losing motivation. In late 2010, many of these economies
imposed stiff austerity measures to control government
spending, eliminating some public benefits many took
for granted.

end of the 1980s, it was replaced with democracy and
the free market. Over the past two decades, China has
also introduced significant free market reforms across
much of the country, fueling a torrid growth rate that
has only recently begun to slow. And in the 1990s, Vietnam launched free market reforms, stimulating rapid,
sustained growth. The remaining communist economic systems—North Korea and Cuba—continue to
falter, their people facing drastic shortages and even
starvation.

2-4b  Communism

Communism is an economic and political system
that calls for public ownership of virtually all enterprises, under the direction of a strong central government. The communist concept was the brainchild
of political philosopher Karl Marx, who outlined its
core principles in his 1848 Communist Manifesto. The
communism that Marx envisioned was supposed
to dramatically improve the lot of the worker at the
expense of the super-rich.
But countries that adopted communism in the
1900s—most notably the former Soviet Union, China,
Cuba, North Korea, and Vietnam—did not thrive. Most
imposed authoritarian governments that suspended
individual rights and choices. People were unable to
make even basic choices such as where to work or
what to buy. Without the free market to establish what
to produce, crippling shortages and surpluses developed. Corruption infected every level of government.
Under enormous pressure from their own people and
the rest of the world, communism began to collapse
across the Soviet Union and its satellite nations. At the

2-5

photocritical/Shutterstock.com

Waste Not, Want Not

MIXED ECONOMIES:
THE STORY OF THE FUTURE

In today’s world, pure economies—market or planned—
are practically nonexistent, since each would fall far
short of meeting the needs of its citizens. A pure market
economy would make insufficient provision for the
communism An economic
old, the young, the sick,
and political system that calls for
public ownership of virtually all
and the environment. A
enterprises, under the direction
pure planned economy
of a strong central government.
would not create enough
mixed economies
value to support its people
Economies that embody
over the long term. Instead,
elements of both planned
most of today’s nations
and market-based economic
have mixed economies,
systems.
falling somewhere along
CHAPTER 2: Economics: The Framework for Business

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

31

Big Brother Is Watching . . . or Is He?

converting government-owned
businesses to private ownership.

32

Ekaterina Bykova/Shutterstock.com

have begun moving toward the market end of the
spectrum. Government-owned businesses have
converted to private ownership via a process
called privatization. Socialist governments
have reduced red tape, cracked down on
corruption, and created new laws to protect economic rights. Extravagant human
services—from free healthcare to education subsidies—have shrunk. And farreaching tax reform has created new
incentives for both domestic and foreign
investment in once-stagnant planned
economies.15
Unfortunately, the price of economic restructuring has been a fair
amount of social turmoil in many
nations undergoing market reforms.
Countries from France to China have
experienced sometimes violent
demonstrations in response to social and employment program cutbacks. Change is challenging,
especially when it redefines
economic winners and losers.
But countries that have taken
strides toward the market end
of the spectrum—from small
players such as the Czech Republic, to large players such as
Karl Marx (1818–1883) was a PrussianChina—have seen the payoff
born theorist who helped develop the
in rejuvenated growth rates
that have raised the standard
political ideology of communism.
of living for millions of people.

a spectrum that ranges from pure planned at one extreme to pure market at the other.
Even the United States—one of the most market-oriented economies in the world—does
not have a pure market economy. The various departments of the government own
a number of major enterprises, including
the postal service, schools, parks, libraries, entire systems of universities, and
the military. In fact, the federal government is the nation’s largest employer,
providing jobs for more than 4 million
Americans. And—although the government does not directly operate firms in
the financial sector—the federal government has become part owner in
a number of financial institutions as
part of the recent bailouts. The government also intervenes extensively
in the free market by creating regulations that stimulate competition
and protect both consumers and
workers. Regulations are likely to
become stronger in the wake of
the economic crisis.14
Over the past 30 years,
most economies of the world

privatization The process of

with flowers. These results suggest that self-interest may be
more natural and comfortable than fairness for most people.
We’re happy to be generous, but only when we think someone
is watching—even if that someone is just a cutout picture of
a face with observant eyes. Our deep-seated interest in our
own well-being over everyone else’s may be one reason why
socialism and communism haven’t created as much wealth over
the long term as free enterprise has.13
rangizzz/Shutterstock.com

One of the underlying principles of communism and socialism
is that most people are willing to sacrifice self-interest for the
good of the overall society. That may be true, but a new study
suggests that may only be true if other people are watching.
Researchers at the psychology department of a major university
recently ran an experiment whereby they changed the price list
at an honor system–based coffee bar in the faculty and staff
break room. The prices themselves remained unchanged, but
each week the photocopied picture above the prices varied
between flowers and the eyes of real faces. The faces changed,
but the eyes on the faces always looked directly at the observer.
During the weeks with faces on the list, staff members paid
nearly three times as much for their drinks as during the weeks

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

What in the World Happened to Capitalism?
In the late 1800s and early 1900s, millions of peasants from
around the world set sail for the United States in search of
the American Dream. Inspired by rumors that the streets in
U.S. cities were paved with gold, these poor villagers poured
through Ellis Island and spread across the country to build
better lives for themselves and their families. Sometime
between then and now, however, the American Dream lost
its shine. In an international survey of 10,000 adults, only
14% agreed with the statement that “the next generation will
probably be richer, safer, and healthier than the last,” while
52% disagreed. Americans’ survey answers were among the
most pessimistic in the survey, which also found that 55%
of Americans believe that “the rich get richer” and “the poor

2-6

EVALUATING ECONOMIC
PERFORMANCE: WHAT’S
WORKING?

Clearly, economic systems are complex—very complex.
So you probably won’t be surprised to learn that no
single measure captures all the dimensions of economic
performance. To get the full picture, you need to understand a range of terms and measures, including gross
domestic product, employment level, the business cycle,
inflation rate, and productivity.
2-6a  Gross Domestic Product
Real gross domestic product, or GDP, measures
the total value of all final goods and services produced
within a nation’s physical boundaries over a given period of time, adjusted for inflation. (Nominal GDP does
not include an inflation adjustment.) All domestic production is included in the GDP, even when the producer
is foreign-owned. The U.S. GDP, for instance, includes
the value of Hyundai Sonatas built in Alabama, even
though Hyundai is a Korean firm. Likewise, the Indonesian GDP includes the value of Gap clothing manufactured in Indonesian factories, even though Gap is an
American firm.
GDP is a vital measure of economic health. Business­
people, economists, and political leaders use GDP to
measure the economic performance of individual nations and to compare the growth among nations. Interestingly, GDP levels tend to be somewhat understated

get poorer” under capitalism. Do these downbeat perceptions really matter? They certainly do for the people who hold
them, and some experts believe that a widespread loss of
faith in business can actually lead to destructive regulation,
ultimately undermining the country’s ability to create wealth.
So are Americans ready to ditch capitalism? The meteoric
rise of democratic socialist Bernie Sanders during the 2016
presidential election suggests that perhaps many are. For
the time being, however, this survey indicates that most
Americans agree with this paraphrased Winston Churchill
quote: “Capitalism is the worst economic system, except for all
the others.”16

since they don’t include any illegal activities—such as
paying undocumented nannies and gardeners, or selling
illegal drugs—which can represent a significant portion
of some countries’ production. The GDP also ignores
legal goods that are not reported to avoid taxation,
plus output produced within households.17 Check out
Chapter 3 for a survey of the world’s key economies
according to total GDP and GDP growth rate.
2-6b  Employment Level
The overall level of employment is another key element
of economic health. When people have jobs, they have
money, which allows them to spend and invest, fueling economic growth. Most nations track employment
levels largely through the unemployment rate,
which includes everyone age 16 and older who
doesn’t have a job and is actively seeking one. The U.S.
unemployment rate climbed precipitously through
the Great Recession, rising from 5.8% in 2008 to 9.3%
in 2009, then dropping to
8.1% in 2012 as the econgross domestic product
omy began its glacially
(GDP) The total value of all final
slow turnaround. Unemgoods and services produced
within a nation’s physical
ployment didn’t move
boundaries over a given period
below 8% until Septemof time.
ber of 2012, and then it
unemployment rate The
dropped slowly throughpercentage of people in the
out 2013 to end the year at
labor force over age 16 who do
an annual average of 7.4%
not have jobs and are actively
as the recovery began to
seeking employment.
take hold. Unemployment
CHAPTER 2: Economics: The Framework for Business

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

33

continued dropping, hitting 4.7% in December 2016.
But unfortunately, about half of the 8 million jobs lost
during the recession were middle-income jobs, and
about half of the new jobs created since have been in
low-wage sectors of the economy, leading to stagnant
household incomes.18
Interestingly, some unemployment is actually
good—it reflects your freedom to change jobs. If you
have an awful boss, for instance, you may just quit. If
you quit, are you unemployed? Of course you are. Are
you glad? You probably are, and in normal times, the
chances are good that you’ll find another position that’s
a better fit for you. This type of job loss is called frictional
unemployment, and it tends to be ultimately positive.
Structural unemployment, on the other hand, is usually
longer term. This category encompasses people who
don’t have jobs because the economy no longer needs
their skills. In the United States, growing numbers of
workers in the past decade have found themselves victims of structural unemployment as manufacturing jobs
have moved overseas. Often their only option is expensive retraining. Two other categories of unemployment
are cyclical, which involves layoffs during recessions,
and seasonal, which involves job loss related to the time
of year. In some areas of the country, construction and
agricultural workers are seasonally unemployed, but the
best example may be the department-store Santa who
has a job only during the holiday season!

Raising a child born in 2015 from
birth to age 17 costs about $233,610
(not including college!)—almost
$14,000 every year.
— U . S . D E PA R T M E N T O F A G R I C U LT U R E

best guesses stand to make fortunes, but bad bets can
be financially devastating. The two key phases of the
business cycle are contraction and expansion, shown in
Exhibit 2.5.
■	Contraction

is a period of economic downturn,
marked by rising unemployment. Businesses
cut back on production, and consumers shift
their buying patterns to more basic products
and fewer luxuries. The economic “feel-good
factor” simply disappears. Economists declare
an official recession when GDP decreases for
two consecutive quarters. A depression is
an especially deep and long-lasting recession.
Fortunately, economies seldom spiral into severe
depressions, thanks in large part to proactive
intervention from the government.
The last depression in the United States was the
Great Depression of the 1930s. Whether a downturn
is mild or severe, the very bottom of the contraction
is called the “trough,” as shown in Exhibit 2.5.

2-6c  The Business
business cycle The periodic
contraction and expansion that
occur over time in virtually every
economy.

contraction A period of
economic downturn, marked by
rising unemployment and falling
business production.
recession An economic
downturn marked by a decrease
in the GDP for two consecutive
quarters.

depression An especially
deep and long-lasting recession.
recovery A period of
rising economic growth and
employment.
expansion A period of robust
economic growth and high
employment.

34

Cycle

The business cycle
is the periodic contraction and expansion that
occur over time in virtually every economy. But
the word “cycle” may be a
little misleading, since it
implies that the economy
contracts and expands
in a predictable pattern.
In reality, the phases of
the cycle are different
each time they happen,
and—despite the efforts
of countless experts—no
one can accurately predict
when changes will occur or how long they will
last. Those who make the

■■

Recovery is a period of rising economic growth
and increasing employment following a contraction.
Businesses begin to expand. Consumers start to regain
confidence, and spending begins to rise. The recovery
is essentially the transition period between contraction and expansion.

■■

Expansion is a period of robust economic growth
and high employment. Businesses expand to
capitalize on emerging opportunities. Consumers
are optimistic and confident, which fuels purchasing, which fuels production, which fuels further
hiring. As Exhibit 2.5 demonstrates, the height of
economic growth is called the peak of the expansion. The U.S. economy had the longest growth
spurt on record during the ten-year period from
1991 to 2001. After a relatively mild slowdown in
2001–2002, the U.S. economy again expanded for
several years before it plunged into a full-blown
recession in 2008.19

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Exhibit 2.5

The Business Cycle

2-6d  Price Levels
The rate of price changes across the economy is another basic measure of economic well-being. Inflation
means that prices, on average, are rising. Similar to
unemployment, a low level of inflation is not so bad.
It reflects a healthy economy—people have money,
and they are willing to spend it. But when the Federal
Reserve—the nation’s central bank—manages the economy poorly, inflation can spiral out of control, which can
lead to hyperinflation, when average prices increase
more than 50% per month. In Hungary, for example, inflation in its unstable, post–World War II economy climbed
so quickly that prices doubled every 15 hours in 1946.
More recently, prices in the war-torn former Yugoslavia
doubled every 16 hours between October 1993 and
January 1994.
When the rate of price increases slows down, the
economy is ex­
periencing disinflation, which was
the situation in the United States in the mid-1990s and
more recently in the second half of 2008. But when
prices actually decrease, the economy is experiencing
deflation, typically a sign of economic trouble that
goes hand-in-hand with very high unemployment. People don’t have money and simply won’t spend unless
prices drop. During the Great Depression in the 1930s, the

U.S. economy experienced deflation, with prices dropping 9% in 1931 and nearly 10% in 1932. Despite some
economic turmoil, inflation in the United States
inflation A period of rising
was relatively low from
average prices across the economy.
2000 to 2007, hovering at
around 3%. But inflation
hyperinflation An average
monthly inflation rate of more
picked up in the first half
than 50%.
of 2008, only to fall during the first months of the
disinflation A period of
slowing average price increases
economic crisis, remaining
across the economy.
low throughout 2009 and
2010. Inflation jumped to
deflation A period of
falling average prices across the
an annual average of 3.2%
economy.
in 2011 but dropped to
an annual average of 1.5%
consumer price index
in 2013. The rate dropped
(CPI) A measure of inflation
that evaluates the change in the
further to 0.8% in 2014 and
weighted-average price of goods
0.7% in 2015, but rose to
and services that the average
20
2.1% in 2016.
consumer buys each month.
The government uses
producer price index
two major price indexes
(PPI) A measure of inflation
to evaluate inflation: the

consumer price index
(CPI) and the producer
price index (PPI). The

that evaluates the change over
time in the weighted-average
wholesale prices.

CHAPTER 2: Economics: The Framework for Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

35

iStock.com/Twohumans

Productivity is calculated by dividing the output by the input. Everything else
being equal, the more chocolate pieces (output) produced per hour of work
(input), the higher the productivity.

CPI measures the change in weighted-average price
over time in a consumer “market basket” of goods and
services that the average person buys each month.
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics creates the basket—
which includes hundreds of items such as housing,
transportation, haircuts, wine, and pet care—using data
from more than 30,000 consumers. Although the market
basket is meant to represent the average consumer, keep
in mind that the “average” includes a lot of variation, so
the CPI may not reflect your personal experience. For example, as a college student, you may be painfully sensitive to increases in tuition and the price of textbooks—a
fact the authors of this particular textbook fully realize! But tuition and textbook prices aren’t a big part of
the ­“average” consumer’s budget, so increases in these
prices have a relatively small impact on the CPI.
The PPI measures
the change over time in
productivity The basic
weighted-average wholerelationship between the production
sale prices, or the prices
of goods and services (output) and
the resources needed to produce
that businesses pay each
them (input) calculated via the
other for goods and
following equation: output/input 5
services. Changes in the
productivity.
PPI can sometimes predict

36

changes in the CPI because producers tend to pass on
price increases (and sometimes also price decreases) to
consumers within a month or two of the changes.
2-6e  Productivity

Productivity refers to the relationship between the
goods and services that an economy produces and
the resources needed to produce them. The amount of
output—goods and services—divided by the amount
of input (e.g., hours worked) equals productivity. The
goal, of course, is to produce more goods and services,
using fewer hours and other inputs. A high level of
productivity typically correlates with healthy GDP
growth, while low productivity tends to correlate with a
more stagnant economy.
Over the past cou­ple of decades, the United States
has experienced strong productivity growth, due
largely to infusions of technology that help workers
produce more output, more quickly. But keep in mind
that productivity doesn’t measure quality. That’s why
it’s so important to examine multiple measures of
economic health rather than relying on simply one or
two dimensions.

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

THE BIG PICTURE
From a business standpoint, one key goal of
economics is to guide your decision making
by offering a deeper understanding of the broad forces that
affect both your business and your personal life. Knowing
even basic economic principles can help you make better
business decisions in virtually every area—from production,
to marketing, to accounting, to name just a few—regardless of
your specific function or level within an organization.

But you won’t find an economics department within many (if
any) businesses—rather, you’ll find people across the organization applying economic theories and trends to their work, even
in the face of continual economic flux. As you read through the
other chapters in this book, take a moment to consider both
the macroeconomic and microeconomic forces that affect each
area you study. You’re likely to find a surprising number of
examples.

CAREERS IN BUSINESS
Business Economist
Collect, analyze, and distribute data to explain economic
phenomena and forecast economic trends, particularly with

STUDY TOOLS

regard to supply and demand. Create and present clear, concise
reports on economic trends to senior management on a
monthly basis. Manage and motivate a small team of financial
analysts and statisticians.

2

LOCATED AT BACK OF THE TEXTBOOK
■■

Rip-Out Chapter Review Card

■■

Gain unique perspectives on key concepts with new concept
videos in the e-book
Increase your comprehension with online homework and
quizzes

■■

■■

Study with existing flashcards and make your own

CHAPTER 2: Economics: The Framework for Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

37

3

The World Marketplace:
Business without Borders

LEARNING OBJECTIVES
3-1 Discuss business opportunities in the world economy

Remember to visit

3-2 Explain the key reasons for international trade

PAGE 56

3-3 Describe the tools for measuring international trade

for additional

3-4 Analyze strategies for reaching global markets
3-5 Discuss barriers to international trade and strategies to surmount them

STUDY TOOLS

3-6 Describe the free-trade movement, and discuss key benefits and criticisms

3-1

AN UNPRECEDENTED OPPORTUNITY

As access to technology skyrockets and barriers to trade continue to fall,
individual economies around the world have become more interdependent
than ever before. The result is a tightly woven global economy marked
by intense competition and huge, shifting opportunities. The long-term
potential for U.S. business is enormous. Although the global economic
crisis caused the world GDP to contract in 2009 for the first time since
World War II, compared with average increases of about 3.5% per year
since 1946, world GDP growth turned positive again in 2010 and 2011,
continuing a slow, steady pace through 2016.1 See Exhibit 3.1 for a
sampling of some specific higher- and lower-growth countries.
A quick look at population trends validates the global
business opportunity, especially in developing nations.
In October 2011, the world’s population surpassed
7 billion people. With 324 million people, the United
States accounts for less than 4.5% of the world’s total
population. More than 6.9 billion people live beyond our

38

borders, representing more than 95% of potential customers for U.S. firms. But even though the growth rates
in many high-population countries are strong, most of
these nations remain behind the United States in terms
of development and prosperity, posing considerable
challenges for foreign firms. (In other words, most of their

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Rawpixel.com/Shutterstock.com

After studying this chapter, you will be able to:

populations may not have the resources to buy even
basic goods and services.) The issue is likely to become
even more severe in the wake of the global economic
crisis. Exhibit 3.1, a comparison of population, GDP
growth rate, and per capita GDP for the world’s six largest
nations, highlights some of the discrepancies. Note that
even though U.S. consumers clearly have money, China

“The world
chief business
is more malleable
of the
American
than
you think
people
andisit’s
business”
waiting
for you to hammer itC into
A LV I N C O O L I D G E
A
M
E
R
I
CAN PRESIDENT
shape.”
—BONO, MUSICIAN
A N D H U M A N I TA R I A N

EXHIBIT 3.1 SELECTED POPULATION AND GDP FIGURES
Nation

Population*

Per Capita GDP (U.S. Dollars)**

GDP Growth Rate***

China

1,373,541,278

$14,600

16.7%

India

1,266,883,598

$6,700

17.6%

European Union

513,949,445

$39,200

11.9%

United States

323,995,528

$57,300

11.6%

Indonesia

258,316,051

$11,700

15.0%

Brazil

205,823,665

$14,800

23.5%

* CIA world Factbook Population 2016 estimates.
** CIA World Factbook GDP 2016 estimates.
***CIA World Factbook GDP 2016 growth estimates.2

CHAPTER 3: The World Marketplace: Business without Borders
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

39

The Next Big Thing
In early 2016, financial experts noticed that American-based
global corporations, such as Alphabet (the parent corporation of Google), General Motors, and Apple, were hoarding
enormous—even unprecedented—amounts of cash. To put
it into context, with its $80 billion in cash reserves, Google
could have bought Goldman Sachs, American Express, most of
MasterCard, Costco, eBay, or a quarter of Amazon. So why was
this happening? There are several possible reasons:
▪▪ Tax avoidance: Holding onto cashing and shifting it among
subsidiaries can lower a firm’s overall tax bill.

and they are hoarding cash to invest in it. All of the transformative innovations of the past century—cars, for instance, or the
emergence of the Internet—have required enormous investments
in infrastructure, machinery, and technology. In many cases, the
most successful companies were the ones that could make these
investments early on. It’s impossible to know if the corporate cash
hoards are foreshadowing transformative innovation, but if they
are, it bodes well for all of us. Jet packs, anyone? Flying cars? Or
maybe something else yet to be imagined?3

▪▪ Acquisitions: Buying the best firms and the best talent has
become increasingly competitive. Rivals can be scared off if
your firm seems to have limitless resources to spend.
ra2studio/Shutterstock.com

▪▪ Emergencies: In a highly risky economic environment, extra
cash is always helpful.
Even taken together, these three reasons don’t come close to
explaining the sheer size of the cash overload. So what gives?
Some financial experts speculate that senior executives at these
industries believe that the next big thing may be around the corner,

and India represent a much bigger opportunity in terms
of both sheer size and economic growth.
3-1a

Global Business’s Slowing Momentum

Multinational businesses boomed throughout the 1990s
and early 2000s. Powerful globe-spanning companies
created economies of scale, dictated consumer trends in
everything from movies to lingerie design, and crossed
borders at will to create record-breaking profits. Many multinational corporations are still thriving—especially technology and consumer product superstars. In the past five
years, however, the overall profits of multinationals have
dropped by 25%. When President Donald Trump roared
into office in 2017, he sent a clear message to American
multinationals that they should keep jobs and spending
at home or face his intervention. This America-first message reflected efforts by other countries to localize their
businesses, build their tax bases, and increase domestic
consumer spending. The era of multinationals brought
global economic efficiency, lower prices, and unprecedented consumer choice. As global firms begin to refocus
on their home countries, we may see more domestic jobs,
but potentially at the cost of less innovation, fewer choices,
and higher prices. One way or another, the next several
years will be a formative time for the overall business
environment.4

40

3-1b Emerging Economies
For the last two decades, experts have looked to the BRIC
countries—Brazil, Russia, India, and China—as the engines
of future world economic growth. And with their large
populations, rapid development, and robust middle-class
growth rates, the BRIC countries doubtless deserved that
attention. By early 2016, however, the BRIC countries appeared to hit a wall. This is especially true for China, the
world’s most populous country (with nearly 1.4 billion
people) and second largest economy (behind only the
United States). In 2015, China’s economic growth rate
dropped to 16.9%, and dipped even lower in 2016 to
16.7%, it’s lowest rate of growth in 26 years.5 In January
2016, China’s stock market collapsed, wiping out more
than $1.1 trillion in market value in just one week. While
China’s long-term growth engine seems to be sputtering,
many economists believe that the country will eventually
regain momentum and will remain a powerful player in
the global economy. Brazil and Russia, on the other hand,
have actually been experiencing negative economic
growth. Some 16% of young Brazilians are unemployed,
boding poorly for the country’s future. India remains the
lone bright spot among the BRIC countries. Still, despite
its ongoing economic strength, India must address important issues such as infrastructure investment and regulatory reforms to maintain its robust growth.

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

3-1c Cell Phones and Economic Growth

Karves/Shutterstock.com

So with the BRIC countries playing less of a role than
expected, which areas are currently emerging in today’s
global marketplace? Most experts seem to see a pattern
of emergence in Southeast Asia and Africa. Vietnam, the
Philippines, and Bangladesh are all benefitting from the
migration of labor-intensive, low-wage manufacturing
jobs away from China. As more jobs are created, these locations will likely begin to develop sturdy middle classes and
stabilized economies. A number of sub-Saharan African
nations, such as Nigeria, Kenya, and Angola, also represent
an enormous opportunity for economic growth. According to a Standard Bank of Africa report, in the 11 countries
that represent 50% of Africa’s GDP, there are 15 million
households in the middle class. The Standard Bank of
Africa predicts that this number will grow to 42 million
by 2030. This kind of prediction has spurred gigantic firms
such as Kellogg’s, Procter & Gamble, and Walmart to capitalize on the opportunity and make multimillion-dollar investments in Africa. Unfortunately, as is often the case, the
opportunity comes hand in hand with massive challenges.
Many African countries are rife with security risks, political
instability, and flat-out civil war. Africa also faces seemingly
intractable infrastructure problems, including insufficient
access to fresh water and electricity. A silver lining, however, is that solving these infrastructure issues could itself
be a new opportunity for investors and entrepreneurs.
A teenage boy uses a cell phone in
Salunkwadi, a rural village in central India.

The growing number of people with cell phones offers an
interesting indicator of economic growth. Several recent
studies have found that if a country increases cell phone
person. In the United States, Europe, and Japan, cell phones
penetration by 10 percentage points, GDP will likely infollowed landlines, but large swaths of developing nations
crease by anywhere from 10.5% to 11.2%. That may
aren’t bothering to build conventional phone service.
seem small, but it equates to somewhere between $49
Rather, they’re moving directly to cell phone networks. This
and $118 billion for an economy the size of China. In other
trend is particularly marked across Africa, where cell phone
words, when the percentage of the population with cell
penetration rates continue to grow explosively. Most of the
phones goes up, the entire economy benefits.
penetration growth involves basic-function phones, but
Not surprisingly, cell phone penetration in India and
smartphone penetration is growing as well, providing acChina is skyrocketing. China currently boasts the world’s
cess to the Internet for the first time ever to huge swaths
­largest base of cell phone users—more than one ­billion—
of the population. David Knapp, general director of Moand the growth will likely continue. India’s subscriber base
torola Vietnam, points out that many developing nations
just crossed the 1 billion mark; it has grown explosively over
“can leapfrog technology.” And Vietnamese microentreprethe past five years and seems likely
neur Nguyen Huu Truc says, “It’s no
to follow suit in the next decade.
longer something that only the rich
49.9% of households
The growth may well continue until
can afford. Now, it’s a basic means
China and India hit the 100%1 cell
of communication.” As more people
in India have a toilet,
phone penetration rates that charget the chance to get connected,
while more than 53%
acterize a number of developed
better communication will likely
own a mobile phone.
nations, such as Taiwan, Hong Kong,
feed economic growth. According
Germany, and Argentina, which
to Muhammad Yunis, founder of
—CNN
have more than one phone per
Grameen Bank in Bangladesh,
CHAPTER 3: The World Marketplace: Business without Borders
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

41

“A mobile phone is almost like having a card to get you out
of poverty in a couple of years.” The upshot is that millions
of people worldwide will have a higher standard of living.6

3-2

K EY REASONS FOR
INTERNATIONAL TRADE

Companies engage in global trade for a range of reasons beyond the obvious opportunity to tap into huge and growing
new markets. The benefits include better access to factors of
production, reduced risk, and an inflow of new ideas.
■■

■■

Inflow of innovation: International trade can also
offer companies an invaluable source of new ideas.
Japan, for instance, is far ahead of the curve regarding cell phone service. Japanese cell phone “extras,”
including games, ringtones, videos, and stylish
new accessories, set the standard for cell service
around the world. In Europe, meanwhile, consumers
are showing a growing interest in traditional and
regional foods, which allow them to picture where
their ingredients come from. Companies with a
presence in foreign markets experience budding
trends like these firsthand, giving them a jump in
other markets around the world.7

Access to factors of production: International trade
offers a valuable opportunity for individual firms to
capitalize on factors of production that simply aren’t
present in the right amount for the right price in each
3-2a Competitive Advantage
individual country. India,
China, and the Philippines,
Beyond individual companies, indusAfrica holds 40% of
for example, attract
tries tend to succeed on a worldwide
multibillion-dollar investthe world’s strategic
basis in countries that enjoy a comments because of their large
petitive advantage. But to understand
raw materials,
cohort of technically skilled
competitive advantage, you need to
including gold, iron
university graduates who
first understand how opportunity
work for about one-fifth
ore, and oil.
cost relates to international trade.
the pay of comparable
When
a country produces more of one
—TI M E M A G A Z I N E
American workers. Russia
good, it must produce less of another
and the OPEC nations offer
good (assuming that resources are fia rich supply of oil, and Canada, like other forested
nite). The value of the second-best choice—the value of
nations, boasts an abundant supply of timber. The
the production that a country gives up in order to produce
United States offers plentiful capital, which is less
the first product—represents the opportunity cost of proavailable in other parts of the world. International
ducing the first product.
trade helps even out some of the resource imbalA country has an absolute advantage when it
ances among nations.
can produce more of a good than other nations, using the

Reduced risk: Global trade reduces dependence on one
economy, lowering the economic risk for multinational
firms. When the Japanese
economy entered a deep,
opportunity cost The
sustained slump in the
opportunity of giving up the second1990s, for instance, Sony
best choice when making a decision.
and Toyota thrived through
absolute advantage
their focus on other,
The benefit a country has in
healthier ­markets around
a given industry when it can
produce more of a product than
the world. But a word of
other nations using the same
caution is key: as national
amount of resources.
economies continue to
comparative advantage
integrate, an economic
The benefit a country has in a
meltdown in one part
given industry if it can make
of the world can have
products at a lower opportunity
­far-reaching impact. Major
cost than other countries.
foreign banks, for example,
■■

42

were badly burned by the U.S. subprime market mess,
due to heavy investments in U.S. mortgage markets.

same amount of resources. China, for example, has an absolute advantage in terms of clothing production, relative
to the United States. But having an absolute advantage
isn’t always enough. Unless they face major trade barriers,
the industries in any country tend to produce products
for which they have a ­
comparative advantage—
meaning that they tend to turn out those goods that have
the lowest opportunity cost com­pared to other countries.
The United States, for instance, boasts a comparative advantage versus most countries in movie and television program production; Germany has a comparative advantage
in the production of high-­performance cars; and South
Korea enjoys a comparative advantage in electronics.
But keep in mind that comparative advantage seldom remains static. As technology changes and the
workforce evolves (through factors such as education
and experience), nations may gain or lose comparative

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

country has a trade deficit. Balance of trade includes
the value of both goods and services, and it incorporates
trade with all foreign nations. Although a trade deficit
signals the wealth of an economy that can afford to buy
huge amounts of foreign products, a large deficit can be
destabilizing. It indicates, after all, that as goods and services flow into a nation, money flows out—a challenge
with regard to long-term economic health. The United
States has had an overall trade deficit since 1976, and as
the American appetite for foreign goods has grown, the
trade deficit has ballooned. But that growth may slow
over the next few years if demand remains sluggish in
response to the global economic crisis.

advantage in various industries. China and India, for example, are both seeking to build a comparative advantage versus other nations in technology production by
investing in their infrastructure and their institutions of
higher education.

3-3

GLOBAL TRADE: TAKING MEASURE

After a decade of robust growth, global trade began
slowing in 2007, due largely to turbulence in the worldwide financial markets. In 2008, the rate of growth in world
trade slid below 5% as the global recession tightened
its grip. In 2009, global trade plummeted nearly 25% in
U.S. dollar terms, and 12% in terms of overall volume from
the 2008 level, the largest single-year drop since World
War II. In 2010, global trade volume surged 13.8% but
expanded a more modest 15.0% in 2011. In 2012, the
growth rate dropped to 12.3% but increased a modest
12.1% in 2013. Economists saw an increase of 14.7%
in 2014, rather sluggish growth of +2.8% in 2015, and
a further slowdown in 2016. All told, the past few years’
numbers lag behind the turbo-charged growth rates of
much of the past two decades. Measuring the impact of
international trade on individual nations requires a clear
understanding of balance of trade, balance of payments,
and exchange rates.8
3-3a

3-3b Balance of Payments

Balance of payments is a measure of the total flow
of money into or out of a country. Clearly, the balance of
trade plays a central role in determining the balance of payments. But the balance of payments also includes other
financial flows such as foreign borrowing and lending,
foreign aid payments and receipts, and foreign investments. A balance of payments surplus means that
more money flows in than
out, while a balance of
balance of trade A basic
payments deficit means
measure of the difference in value
that more money flows out
between a nation’s exports and
than in. Keep in mind that
imports, including both goods
the balance of payments
and services.
typically corresponds to the
trade surplus Overage that
balance of trade because
occurs when the total value of
a nation’s exports is higher than
trade is, in general, the largthe total value of its imports.
est component.
trade deficit Shortfall that

Balance of Trade

The balance of trade is a basic measure of the difference between a nation’s exports and imports. If the total
value of exports is higher than the total value of imports,
the country has a trade surplus. If the total value of
imports is higher than the total value of exports, the

3-3c

Exchange Rates

AP Images/Richard Vogel

Exchange rates measure

Most apparel today is produced outside of
the United States.

the value of one nation’s
currency relative to the
currency of other nations.
While the exchange rate
does not directly measure
global commerce, it certainly has a powerful influence on how global trade
affects individual nations
and their trading partners. The exchange rate
of a given currency must
be expressed in terms
of another currency. The
table below shows some

occurs when the total value of a
nation’s imports is higher than
the total value of its exports.

balance of payments
A measure of the total flow of
money into or out of a country.

balance of payments
surplus Overage that occurs
when more money flows into a
nation than out of that nation.

balance of payments
deficit Shortfall that occurs
when more money flows out of a
nation than into that nation.

exchange rate A
measurement of the value of one
nation’s currency relative to the
currency of other nations.

CHAPTER 3: The World Marketplace: Business without Borders
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

43

examples of how the exchange rate can influence the
economy, using the dollar and the euro. In 2012, for example, a number of currencies underwent value swings
versus the U.S. dollar (e.g., the E.U. euro, the J­apanese
yen, the Brazilian real, the Indian rupee, the Australian
dollar, and the Venezuelan bolivar). One result was
multibillion-dollar earnings hits against U.S. corporations
with a strong international presence, including automotive giants Ford and General Motors. Many firms opt to
present their earnings reports stripped of the effects of
currency translations, but in today’s global economy,
that clearly offers a misleading picture of performance.9
Strong Dollar versus
Euro: Who Benefits?
(Example: $1.00
5 1.20 euros)

Weak Dollar versus
Euro: Who Benefits?
(Example: $1.00
5 0.60 euros)

U.S. travelers to Europe: Their dollars European travelers to the United
States: Their dollars buy more
can buy more European goods
American goods and services.
and services.
American firms with European
operations: Operating costs—
from buying products to paying
­workers—are lower.

European firms with American
operations: Operating costs—
from buying products to paying
workers—are lower.

European exporters: Their products
are less expensive in the United
States, so Europe exports more,
and we import more.

American exporters: Their products
are less expensive in Europe, so we
export more, and Europe imports
more.

3-3d Countertrade
A complete evaluation of global trade must also consider
exchanges that don’t actually involve money. A surprisingly large chunk of international commerce—possibly as
much as 25%—involves the barter of products for products rather than for currency. Companies typically engage in countertrade to meet the needs of customers
who don’t have access to hard currency or credit, usually
in developing countries. Individual countertrade agreements range from simple barter to a complex web of
exchanges that end up meeting the needs of multiple
parties. Done poorly, countertrading can be a confusing
nightmare for everyone involved. But done well, countertrading is a powerful tool for gaining customers and
products that would not otherwise be available.10 Not
surprisingly, barter opportunities tend to increase during economic downturns.
In 2009, for example, ads
countertrade International
began to appear both in
trade that involves the barter of
Russian newspapers and
products for products rather than
online, such as one that
for currency.
offered “2,500,000 rubles’

44

worth of premium underwear for any automobile,” and
another that offered “lumber in Krasnoyarsk for food or
medicine.”11

3-4

S EIZING THE OPPORTUNITY:
STRATEGIES FOR REACHING
GLOBAL MARKETS

There is no one “right way” to seize the opportunity in
global markets. In fact, the opportunity may not even
make sense for every firm. While international trade can offer new profit streams and lower costs, it also introduces a
higher level of risk and complexity to running a business.
Being ready to take on the challenge can mean the difference between success and failure.
Firms ready to tap the opportunity have a number of
options for how to move forward. One way is to seek foreign
suppliers through outsourcing and importing. Another possibility is to seek foreign customers through exporting, licensing,
franchising, and direct investment. These market development options fall in a spectrum from low cost–low control
to high cost–high control, as shown in Exhibit 3.2. In other
words, companies that choose to export products to a foreign
country spend less to enter that market than companies that
choose to build their own factories. But companies that build
their own factories have a lot more control than exporters over
how their business unfolds. Keep in mind that profit opportunity and risk—which vary along with cost and control—also
play a critical role in how firms approach international markets.
Smaller firms tend to begin with exporting and move
along the spectrum as the business develops. But larger
firms may jump straight to the strategies that give them
more control over their operations. Large firms are also
likely to use a number of different approaches in different countries, depending on the goals of the firm and the

Exhibit 3.2

Market Development Options
LOWER

HIGHER

Risk

Exporting

Risk

Licensing

Franchising

Direct
Investment

LESS
Control

MORE
Control

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

3-4a Foreign Outsourcing and Importing

Foreign outsourcing means contracting with foreign
suppliers to produce products, usually at a fraction of the
cost of domestic production. H&M, for instance, relies on a
network for manufacturers around the globe, mostly in less
developed parts of the world, including Kenya, Cambodia,
Indonesia, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, and Bangladesh. Apple depends on firms in China and Taiwan to produce the iPhone.
And countless small companies contract with foreign manufacturers as well. The key benefit, of course, is dramatically
lower wages, which drive down the cost of production.
But while foreign outsourcing lowers costs, it also
involves significant risk. Quality control typically requires
very detailed specifications to ensure that a company
gets what it actually needs. Another key risk of foreign
outsourcing involves social responsibility. A firm that contracts with foreign producers has an obligation to ensure
that those factories adhere to ethical standards. Deciding what those standards should be is often quite tricky,
given different cultures, expectations, and laws in different
countries. And policing the factories on an ongoing basis
can be even harder than determining the standards. But
companies that don’t get it right face the threat of significant consumer backlash in the United States and Europe.
This has been a particular issue with products produced
in China. In the recent past, for instance, product defects
forced U.S. firms to recall a host of Chinese-produced
toys, including Thomas the Tank Engine trains that were
coated with toxic lead paint, ghoulish fake eyeballs that
were filled with kerosene, and Polly Pocket dolls that posed
a swallowing hazard. And in 2013, Greenpeace released a
study that showed that the bulk of children’s clothing produced in China—the world’s largest exporter of textiles—
contains hazardous levels of toxic chemicals.12
Many Americans have become personally familiar with the quality/cost tradeoff as a growing number of companies
have outsourced customer service to foreign call centers. Research suggests that
the approximate cost of offering a live,
American-based, customer service agent
averages about $7.50 per call, while outsourcing those calls to live agents in
another country drops the average
cost down to about $3.25 per call.
But customers end up paying the

difference in terms of satisfaction, reporting high levels of
misunderstanding, frustration, and inefficiency. A number
of firms—such as jetBlue and Amazon.com—have enjoyed
the best of both worlds by outsourcing customer service
calls to U.S. agents who work from their own homes.13
Importing means buying products from overseas
that have already been produced, rather than contracting
with overseas manufacturers to produce special orders. Imported products, of course, don’t carry the brand name of
the importer, but they also don’t carry as much risk. Pier 1
Imports, a large retail chain, has built a powerful brand
around the importing concept, creating stores that give
the customer the sense of a global shopping trip without
the cost or hassle of actually leaving the country.
3-4b

Exporting

Exporting is the most basic level of international market
development. It simply means producing products domestically and selling them abroad. Exporting represents
an especially strong opportunity for small and mid-sized
companies. In Tennessee, for instance, Heritage Glass, a
small firm that has manufactured glass since the Civil War,
plans to reopen a factory that was shuttered for two years,
to capitalize on strong demand for patterned glass from
the Philippines, Europe, and South America.14
3-4c Foreign Licensing and Foreign

Franchising

Foreign licensing and foreign franchising, the next level
of commitment to international markets, are quite similar.
Foreign licensing involves a domestic firm
foreign outsourcing
granting a foreign firm the
(also contract manufacturing)
rights to produce and marContracting with foreign
suppliers to produce products,
ket its product or to use its
usually at a fraction of the cost of
trademark/patent rights
domestic production.
in a defined geographical
importing Buying products
area. The company that
domestically that have been
offers the rights, or the
produced or grown in foreign
licensor, receives
nations.

Dmitry Melnikov/Shutterstock.com

structure of the foreign market. Regardless of the specific
strategy, most large companies—such as General Electric,
Nike, and Disney—both outsource with foreign suppliers
and sell their products to foreign markets.

exporting Selling products
in foreign nations that have been
produced or grown domestically.
foreign licensing Authority
granted by a domestic firm to
a foreign firm for the rights to
produce and market its product or
to use its trademark/patent rights
in a defined geographical area.

CHAPTER 3: The World Marketplace: Business without Borders
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

45

As the World Turns . . .
Research shows that the effects of youth unemployment last
well into adulthood in terms of both work habits and earning
potential. Even more importantly, the talents and skills of this
generation will be wasted if such high unemployment levels
persist on a global level.15

Bogdan Khmelnytskyi/Shutterstock.com

Around the world, people between the ages of 15 and 30 make
up about a quarter of the population. Beyond their age, these
individuals have a number of other factors in common. They grew
up during the dawn of social media and the smartphone, and they
witnessed the global financial meltdown of the late 2000s. As a
group, they are wealthier and likely to live longer than any previous
generation. They also tend to be brainier thanks to more advanced
education and better nutrition practices. The elite among them,
such as 29-year-old Dropbox co-founder Arash Ferdowsi, have
changed the world. But many others face challenging hurdles.
Globally, average youth unemployment sat at 13% in 2016,
compared to an overall rate of 5.9%. And young people in some
countries are facing even tougher numbers. A sampling:

a fee from the company that buys the rights, or the licensee. This approach allows firms to expand into foreign
markets with little or no investment, and it also helps circumvent government restrictions on importing in closed
markets. But maintaining control of licensees can be a
significant challenge. Licensors also run the risk that unethical licensees may become their competitors, using
information that they gained from the licensing agreement. Foreign licensing is especially common in the food
and beverage industry. The most high-profile examples
include Coke and Pepsi, which grant licenses to foreign
bottlers all over the world.
Foreign franchising is a specialized type of
licensing. A firm that expands through foreign franchising,
called a franchisor, offers other businesses, or franchisees,
the right to produce and market its products if the
franchisee agrees to specific operating requirements—a
complete package of how
to do business. Franchisors
foreign franchising A
also often offer their franspecialized type of foreign
licensing in which a firm
chisees management guidexpands by offering businesses
ance, marketing support,
in other countries the right to
and even financing. In reproduce and market its products
turn, franchisees pay both
according to specific operating
a start-up fee and an onrequirements.
going percentage of sales

46

4kclips/Shutterstock.com

Country		
Youth Unemployment
Brazil			16%
France			25%
Italy				40%
Greece			48%
Spain			48%
South Africa		
63%

Foreign franchisers offer franchisees
the rights to produce and market
their products. According to Franchise
Direct, hoteliers Marriott International,
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, and Hilton
Hotels & Resorts were among the top
global franchises for 2017.
to the franchisor. One key difference between franchising
and licensing is that franchisees assume the identity of the
franchisor. A McDonald’s franchise in Paris, for instance, is
clearly a McDonald’s, not, say, a Pierre’s Baguette outlet
that also carries McDonald’s products.

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

3-4d Foreign Direct Investment

Direct investment in foreign production and mar-

3-5

B ARRIERS TO INTERNATIONAL
TRADE

keting facilities represents the deepest level of global involvement. The cost is high, but companies with direct
investments have more control over how their business
Every business faces challenges, but international firms
operates in a given country. The high-dollar commitment
face more hurdles than domestic firms. Under­standing
also represents significant risk if the business doesn’t go
and surmounting those hurdles is the key to success in
well. Most direct investment takes the form of either acglobal markets. Most barriers to trade fall into the followquiring foreign firms or developing new facilities from
ing categories: sociocultural differences, economic differthe ground up. Another increasingly popular approach
ences, and legal/political differences. As you think about
is strategic alliances or partnerthese barriers, keep in mind that
ships that allow multiple firms to
each country has a different mix
share risks and resources for mutual
“Obstacles are those
of barriers. Often countries with
benefit.
the highest barriers have the least
frightful things you
Foreign acquisitions enable
competition, which can be a real
see when you take
companies to gain a foothold
opportunity for the first internayour eyes off your
quickly in new markets. In 2009,
tional firms to break through.
for example, Italian carmaker Fiat
goal.”
took over struggling U.S. auto giant
3-5a Sociocultural
—HENRY FORD, FOUNDER
Chrysler, with plans to more fully
Differences
O F F O RD M O T O R C O M PA N Y
exploit the American market in the
wake of the Great Recession. A numSociocultural differences inber of other global giants, such as Microsoft, General Electric,
clude differences among countries in language, attitudes,
and Nestlé, tend to follow a foreign acquisition ­strategy.16
and values. Some specific, and perhaps surprising, eleDeveloping new facilities from scratch—or “offshoring”—
ments that affect business include nonverbal communiis the most costly form of direct investment. It also involves
cation, forms of address,
significant risk. But the benefits include complete control
attitudes toward punctudirect investment (or
over how the facility develops and the potential for high
ality, religious celebrations
foreign direct investment) When
profits, which makes the approach attractive for corporaand customs, business
firms either acquire foreign firms
tions that can afford it. Intel, for instance, built a $2.5 billion
practices, and expectations
or develop new facilities from the
ground up in foreign countries.
specialized computer chip manufacturing plant in northregarding meals and gifts.
eastern China. And foreign car companies, from German
Understanding and rejoint ventures When two
Daimler-Benz to Korean Hyundai, to Japanese Toyota, have
sponding to sociocultural
or more companies join forces—
sharing resources, risks, and
built factories in the southern United States.17
factors are vital for firms
profits, but not actually merging
Joint ventures involve two or more companies
that operate in multiple
companies—to pursue specific
joining forces—sharing resources, risks, and profits, but
countries. But since the difopportunities.
not merging companies—to pursue specific opportuferences often operate at a
partnership A voluntary
nities. A formal, long-term agreement is usually called a
subtle level, they can unagreement under which two or
partnership, while a less formal, less encompassing
dermine relationships bemore people act as co-owners of
agreement is usually called a strategic alliance. Joint
fore anyone is aware that
a business for profit.
ventures are a popular, though controversial, means of enit’s happening. The best
strategic alliance An
tering foreign markets. Often a foreign company connects
way to jump over socioculagreement between two or
with a local firm to ease its way into the market. In fact,
tural barriers is to conduct
more firms to jointly pursue a
specific opportunity without
some countries, such as India and Malaysia, require that
thorough consumer reactually merging their businesses.
foreign investors have local partners. But research from
search, cultivate firsthand
Strategic alliances typically involve
Harvard finance professor Mihir Desai finds that joint venknowledge, and practice
less formal, less encompassing
tures between multinational firms and domestic partners
extreme sensitivity. The
agreements than partnerships.
can be more costly and less rewarding than they initially
payoff can be a sharp comsociocultural differences
appear. He and his team suggest that they make sense
petitive edge. Hyundai, for
Differences among cultures in
only in countries that require local political and cultural
instance, enjoys a whoplanguage, attitudes, and values.
knowledge as a core element of doing business.18
ping 18% share of the
CHAPTER 3: The World Marketplace: Business without Borders
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

47

passenger car market in India. It beats the competition
with custom features that reflect Indian culture, such as
elevated rooflines to provide more headroom for turbanwearing motorists.19
3-5b Economic Differences
Before entering a foreign m
­ arket, it’s critical to understand
and ­evaluate the local economic conditions. Key factors to
consider include population, per capita income, economic
growth rate, currency exchange rate, and stage of economic development. But keep in mind that low scores for
any of these measures don’t necessarily equal a lack of opportunity. In fact, some of today’s biggest opportunities
are in countries with low per capita income. For example,
the Indian division of global giant Unilever gets 50% of its
sales from rural India by selling products to individual consumers in tiny quantities, such as two-cent sachets of
shampoo. The rural Indian market has been growing so
dramatically that in 2010, the chair of Hindustan Unilever
declared, “What we have done in the last 25 years we want
to do it in the next two years,” scaling up the reach of its
consumer products from about 250,000 rural retail outlets
to about 750,000. In a recent TED Talk, the chair of Hindustan Unilever passionately argued that including value,
purpose, and sustainability in top-level decision-making is
not just savvy—it’s the only way to run a twenty-firstcentury business responsibly. And Hewlett-Packard has
recently joined forces with Unilever to give microdistributors in rural India the ability to check prices and place orders online from “what are now distinctively offline villages
and regions.” Also capitalizing on the rapid growth and increased demand, Samsung has introduced Guru, a mobile
phone that can be charged with solar power, to rural India.
Other mobile companies are scrambling to keep up.20
Effectively serving less developed markets requires innovation and efficiency. Emerging consumers often need
different product features, and they almost always need
lower costs. C. K. Prahalad, an influential business scholar,
believed that forward-thinking companies can make a
profit in developing countries if they make advanced technology affordable. Many markets are simply so large that
high-volume sales can make up for low profit margins.
Overall, the profit potential is clear and growing.
And as consumers in developing countries continue to gain
income—although at a much slower pace in the wake of
the economic crisis—companies that established their
brands early will have a critical edge over firms that eninfrastructure A country’s
ter the market after them.
physical facilities that support
economic activity.

48

Infrastructure

should be another key

economic consideration when entering a foreign market.
Infrastructure refers to a country’s physical facilities that
support economic activity. It includes basic systems in
each of the following areas:
■■

Transportation (e.g., roads, airports, railroads, and ports)

■■

Communication (e.g., TV, radio, Internet, and cell
phone coverage)

■■

Energy (e.g., utilities and power plants)

■■

Finance (e.g., banking, checking, and credit)

The level of infrastructure can vary dramatically
among countries. In Africa, for instance, only 28.7% of
the population has Internet access, compared to 88%
in North America. In Vietnam and Thailand, many consumers buy products directly from vendors in small
boats, compared to firmly grounded stores in Europe.
Although credit card purchases are still relatively low in
much of the world, particularly in Asia, recent growth
has been explosive and will probably continue for the
next few years.21
3-5c

Political and Legal Differences

Political regimes obviously differ around the world, and
their ­policies have a dramatic impact on business. The specific laws and regulations that governments create around
business are often less obvious, yet they can still represent
a significant barrier to international trade. To compete
effectively—and to reduce risk—managers must carefully
evaluate these factors and make plans to respond to them
both now and as they change.

Laws and Regulations International businesses
must comply with international legal standards, the laws
of their own countries, and the laws of their host countries. This can be a real challenge since many developing
countries change business regulations with little notice
and less publicity. The justice system can pose another key
challenge, particularly with regard to legal enforcement of
ownership and contract rights. Since 2003, the World Bank
has published a “Doing Business” report that ranks the
ease of doing business for small and medium-sized companies in 190 different countries. The 2016 “Doing Business” report showed that New Zealand leads in the ease
of doing business, followed by Singapore, Denmark, Hong
Kong SAR, Korea, Norway, the United Kingdom, the United
States, and Sweden. Brunei Darussalam was the individual
economy that improved the most in terms of the ease of
doing business. Overall, the Eastern Europe and Central
Asia regions continued to show a faster rate of improvement than any other regions according to “Doing Business”

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Familiar Favorites with a Brand New Twist
Travel around the world, and you’re likely to see American
fast-food franchisees in virtually every city. Although you’ll
surely recognize the names of these fast-food behemoths,
you may not be as familiar with the food that they serve, since
many of the dishes have been completely changed in response
to local culture.

KFC:
■■

■■

■■

Burger King:

■■

■■

■■

Japan: A limited-time offer of a Whopper with 15 strips of
bacon added. Soon after, pigs were listed in the Endangered
Species Registry in Japan (just kidding).
Austria: X-tra Long Burger (sub sandwich–length burger
with three beef patties topped with either chilli cheese or
BBQ sauce AND onion rings).
Egypt: Cheesy Whopper (a Whopper with a patty of deepfried, breaded cheese on the beef).
United Kingdom: Sprout Surprise Whopper. In case your
Whopper tastes too good, this version adds a disk made of
breaded Brussels sprouts and swiss cheese (surprise!).

Pizza Hut:
■■

■■
■■

■■

■■

Philippines: Double Down Dog (a hot dog wrapped in a
fried chicken bun).

McDonald’s:
■■

■■

■■
■■

■■

■■

Japan: Crust stuffed with shrimp nuggets and injected with
mayonnaise.

India: Chana Snacker (a chickpea burger topped with
Thousand Island sauce).

India: Paneer Salsa Wrap (cottage cheese with MexicanCajun coating).
Australia: Bacon and Egg Roll (“rashers of quality bacon
and fried egg”).
Brazil: Cheese Quiche.
Kuwait: Veggie Surprise Burger (no detailed description …
yikes!).22
Austria: McItaly Adagio burger topped with “eggplant
mousse” and chopped almonds.
Italy: Nutella Burger (a sweet bun filled with a chocolate
and hazelnut spread). This one sounds yummy!

South Korea: Crust filled with sweet potato mousse.
China: Lemon-flavored salmon pastry roll and scallop
croquettes with crushed seaweed.

Joe Raedle/Getty Images News/Getty Images

■■

China: Spicy tofu chicken rice, rice porridge breakfast
(congee).

Middle East: Crown Crust (a pizza/cheeseburger hybrid
studded with “cheeseburger gems,” which are cheeseburger
sliders attached to the outside of a meaty pizza that’s topped
with lettuce and tomato and drizzled with “special sauce,”
served with a side of Pepto Bismol).
Singapore: Double Decker Pizza: The second layer is
comprised of turkey and ham rolls topped with mango
mayonnaise (for the truly calorie deprived).

indicators. The “Doing Business” project examines the ease
of doing business from ten different angles, including the
ease of dealing with construction permits, paying taxes,
and enforcing contracts.23 The key benefit of an effective
legal system is that it reduces risk for both domestic and
foreign businesses.
Bribery, the payment of money for favorable treatment, and corruption, the solicitation of money for favorable treatment, are also major issues throughout the
world. While bribery and corruption are technically illegal
in virtually every major country, they are often accepted as
a standard way of doing business. Regardless, U.S. corporations and American citizens are subject to prosecution
by U.S. authorities for offering bribes in any nation. See
Chapter 4 for more details.

Political Climate The political climate of any country deeply influences whether that nation is attractive to
foreign business. Stability is crucial. A country subject to
strife from civil war, riots, or other violence creates huge
additional risk for foreign business. Yet, figuring out how
to operate in an unstable environment, such as Russia, Bolivia, or the Middle East, can give early movers a real advantage. Grant Winterton, Coca-Cola’s regional manager
for Russia, commented to Time magazine that “the politics
do concern us.” But having snagged 50% of the $1.9 billion
carbonated-soft-drink market, he concludes that “the opportunity far outweighs the risk.” Poor enforcement of intellectual property rights across international borders is
another tough issue for business. The Business Software
Alliance’s piracy-tracking study found that worldwide
CHAPTER 3: The World Marketplace: Business without Borders

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

49

Troubled Waters

Fabien Monteil/Shutterstock.com

Planet Earth does not produce more fresh water—it simply recycles what it has—which isn’t nearly enough in light of
the planet’s exploding human population; in fact, according to the World Health Organization, more than 2.4 million
people die every year from lack of access to clean water, which is not surprising, given that 1 in 10 people lack access to
clean water. Amazingly, the problem only stands to worsen. By 2050, one in five developing countries will face water
shortages, many of them severe. By 2030, China, the world’s most populous country, may no longer be self-sufficient in
terms of wheat and corn production. Clearly, the growing water shortage is a human crisis, but it also will be a business
crisis. Obviously, food and beverage companies depend on water. But when it comes right down to it, every industry
from pharmaceuticals to semiconductors, to mining,
to clothing manufacturing depends on water at some
point in its supply or usage chain. Investment in
clean water can pay off—big time. According to Water
.org, every $1 invested in water and sanitation provides
a $4 economic return. Fortune magazine suggests that
agricultural firms can begin preparing now by investing
in the development of GMO crops, precision agriculture,
and high-tech irrigation. According to brand consultancy Interbrand, other businesses would also be wise to
prepare by designing and executing an enterprise-wide
strategy for water stewardship—not just for their own
operations but for their entire value chains.24

piracy rates hover at about 42%, with piracy rates in emerging markets towering over those in mature markets—
68% versus 24%. The total value of software theft hit a
record $63.4 billion. The highest-piracy countries are Georgia,
Zimbabwe, Moldova, and Libya, all 90% or higher. Somewhat ironically, business decision makers admit to pirating
software more frequently than other computer users do.25

International Trade Restrictions National governments also have the power to erect barriers to inter­
national business through
a variety of international
trade restrictions. The arguprotectionism National
policies designed to restrict
ments for and against trade
international trade, usually with
restrictions—also called
the goal of protecting domestic
protec tionism — a re
businesses.
summarized below. As you
tariffs Taxes levied against
read, note that most econimports.
omists find the ­reasons to
quotas Limitations on the
eliminate trade restrictions
amount of specific products that
much more compelling
may be imported from certain
than the reasons to create
countries during a given time period.
them.
voluntary export restraints
Just as trade restric(VERs) Limitations on the
tions
have a range of moamount of specific products that one
nation will export to another nation.
tivations, they can take a
number of different forms.

50

The most common trade restrictions are tariffs, quotas,
voluntary export restraints, and embargoes.
■■ Tariffs

are taxes levied against imports. Governments tend to use protective tariffs either to shelter
fledgling industries that couldn’t compete without
help, or to shelter industries that are crucial to the
domestic economy. In 2009, Egypt imposed tariffs
on sugar, and the United States levied new tariffs
on Chinese goods—including mattress springs
and electrodes—that it contended were being
dumped on the market at below-cost prices. In
late 2014, the United States took steps toward
imposing steep tariffs on Chinese-made tires, which it
claimed were unfairly subsidized by the government.26

■■

Quotas are limitations on the amount of specific
products that may be imported from certain countries
during a given time period. Russia, for instance, has
specific quotas for U.S. meat imports.

■■

Voluntary export restraints (VERs) are limitations on the amount of specific products that one
nation will export to another nation. Although the
government of the exporting country typically
imposes VERs, they usually do so out of fear that the
importing country would impose even more onerous
restrictions. As a result, VERs often aren’t as “voluntary”
as the name suggests. The United States, for instance,

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

insisted on VERs with Japanese auto exports in the
early 1980s (which many economists believe ultimately precipitated the decline of the U.S. auto industry).
■■

3-6

An embargo is a total ban on the international trade
of a certain item, or a total halt in trade with a particular nation. The intention of most embargoes is to
pressure the targeted country to change political policies or to protect national security. The U.S. embargo
against trade with Cuba offers a high-profile example.

Perhaps the most dramatic change in the world economy has been the global move toward free trade—
the unrestricted movement of goods and services
across international borders. Even though complete free
trade is not a reality, the emergence of regional trading
blocks, common markets, and international trade agreements has moved the world economy much closer to
that goal.

Quotas, VERs, and embargoes are relatively rare compared to tariffs, and tariffs are falling to new lows. But as tariffs decrease, some nations are seeking to control imports
through nontariff barriers such as:
■■

■■

Requiring red-tape-intensive
import licenses for certain
categories
Establishing nonstandard packaging requirements for certain
products

F REE TRADE: THE MOVEMENT
GAINS MOMENTUM

Almost half the
world—over three
billion people—live on
less than $2.50 a day.

3-6a GATT and the World

Trade Organization

The General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade (GATT) is an

T photography/Shutterstock.com

international trade accord designed
to encourage worldwide trade
—GLOBALISSUES.ORG
■■ Offering less-favorable exchange
among its members. Established in
rates to certain importers
1948 by 23 nations, GATT has undergone
a
number
of
revisions.
The most significant changes
■■ Establishing standards on how certain products are
stemmed from the 1986–1994 Uruguay Round of negotiaproduced or grown
tions, which took bold steps to slash average tariffs by about
■■ Promoting a “buy national” consumer attitude among
30% and to reduce other trade barriers among the 125 nalocal people
tions that signed.
Nontariff barriers tend to be fairly effective because
The Uruguay Round also created the World Trade
complaints about them can be hard to prove and easy to
Organization (WTO), a permanent global institution
counter.27
to promote international trade and to settle international
trade disputes. The WTO monitors provisions of the GATT
agreements, promotes further reduction of trade barriers, and mediates disputes among members.
embargo A complete ban on
The decisions of the WTO
international trade of a certain
are binding, which means
item, or a total halt in trade with
that all parties involved in
a particular nation.
disputes must comply to
free trade The unrestricted
maintain good standing in
movement of goods and services
the organization.
across international borders.
Ministers of the WTO
General Agreement on
meet every two years to
Tariffs and Trade (GATT)
address current world
An international trade treaty
designed to encourage
trade issues. As the world
worldwide trade among its
In October 2016, President Barack Obama
economy has shifted tomembers.
lifted limits on cigars and rum imported
ward services rather than
World Trade Organization
from Cuba, easing the embargo imposed on
goods, the emphasis of
(WTO) A permanent global
the small Caribbean nation in 1962. Here, a
WTO meetings has folinstitution to promote
lowed suit. Controlling
woman prepares cigars for shipment at La
international trade and to settle
rampant piracy of intelinternational trade disputes.
Bodeguita del Medio in Havana, Cuba.
lectual property is a key
CHAPTER 3: The World Marketplace: Business without Borders
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

51

3-6b

The World Bank

Established in the aftermath of World War II, the World
Bank is an international cooperative of 188 member countries, working together to reduce poverty in
the developing world. The World Bank influences the
global economy by providing financial and technical
advice to the governments of developing countries for
projects in a range of areas, including infrastructure,
communications, health, and education. The financial
assistance usually comes in the form of low-interest
loans. But to secure a loan, the borrowing nation must
often agree to conditions that can involve rather arduous economic reform.
World Bank An international
cooperative of 188 member
countries, working together to
reduce poverty in the developing
world.
International Monetary
Fund (IMF) An international
organization of 188 member
nations that promotes
international economic
cooperation and stable growth.

52

international economic cooperation and stable growth.
Funding comes from the member nations, with the United
States contributing more than twice as much as any other
country. To achieve these goals, the IMF:
■■

Supports stable exchange rates

■■

Facilitates a smooth system of international
payments

■■

Encourages member nations to adopt sound
economic policies

■■ Promotes international trade
■■ Lends money to member nations to address

economic problems
Although all of its functions are important, the IMF is
best known as a lender of last resort to nations in financial trouble. This policy has come under fire in the past
few years. Critics accuse the IMF of encouraging poor
countries to borrow more money than they can ever
hope to repay, which actually cripples their economies
over the long term, creating even deeper poverty.
At the end of 2005, the IMF responded to its critics
by implementing a historic debt relief program for poor
countries. Under this program, which has since been expanded to include other agencies, the IMF and its partners have extended 100% debt forgiveness to 35 poor
countries, erasing about $76 billion in debt. The managing director of the IMF pointed out that the canceled

Hector Vivas/STR/Getty Images

concern for developed countries. For less-developed
countries, one central issue is U.S. and European agricultural subsidies, which may unfairly distort agricultural
prices worldwide.
In fact, both the broader agenda and the individual decisions of the WTO have become increasingly controversial over the past ten years. Advocates
for less-developed nations are deeply concerned that
free trade clears the path for major multinational
corporations to push local businesses into economic
failure. A local food stand, for instance, probably won’t
have the resources to compete with a global giant such
as McDonald’s. If the food stand closes, the community
has gained inexpensive hamburgers, but the entrepreneur has lost his livelihood, and the community has lost
the local flavor that contributes to its unique culture.
Other opponents of the WTO worry that the acceleration of global trade encourages developing countries
to fight laws that protect the environment and workers’ rights, for fear of losing their low-cost advantage
on the world market. The concerns have sparked significant protests during the past few meetings of the
WTO ministers, and the outcry may well grow louder as
developing nations gain economic clout.

3-6c The International

Monetary Fund

Like the World Bank, the

International Monetary
Fund (IMF) is an international organization
accountable to the governments of its 188 member
nations. The basic mission
of the IMF is to promote

Donald Trump’s America-first stances
on trade and immigration have tested
the United States’ relations with Mexico.
Here, Donald Trump is greeted by Mexican
President Mexico Enrique Pena Nieto
during an August 31, 2016 meeting in
Mexico City, Mexico.

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

debt will allow these countries to increase spending in
priority areas to reduce poverty and promote growth
(although some experts worry that debt cancellation
sets a troubling precedent for future lending). The result
should be a higher standard of living for some of the
poorest people in the world.28
3-6d Trading Blocs and Common Markets

U.S. economy (to Mexico’s advantage). Trump vowed to
renegotiate the treaty with more favorable terms for the
United States. During his first ten days in office, he also
floated the idea of a steep import tax on Mexican goods.
While this tax has not yet been imposed as of publication,
it could potentially trigger a trade war with Mexico if it
comes to pass. This would have a disproportionately high
impact on California’s economy (the sixth largest economy
in the world), driving up prices on Mexican goods across
the country. Margaritas, anyone? Not if they cost twice as
much as any other drink!30

Another major development in the past decade is the
emergence of regional trading blocs, or groups of
countries that have reduced or even eliminated all tarEuropean Union Composed of 28 nations and more
iffs, allowing the free flow of goods among the member
than
half a ­billion people, and boasting a combined GDP
nations. A common market goes even further than
of nearly $17 trillion, the European
a trading bloc by attempting
Union (EU) is the world’s largest
to harmonize all trading rules.
“
W
e
must
create
a
common
market. Exhibit 3.3 shows
The United States, Mexico, and
a
map
of
the 2016 EU countries
kind of globalization
Canada have formed the largest
plus
six
countries
that have applied
trading bloc in the world, and
that works for
31
to join.
the 28 countries of the European
everyone...
and
not
The overarching goal of the
Union have formed the largest
EU
is
to bolster Europe’s trade posijust
for
a
few.”
common market.
tion and to increase its international
—NESTOR KIRCHNER,
NAFTA The North American
political and economic power. To
ARGENTINE POLITICIAN
help make this happen, the EU
Free Trade Agreement
has removed all trade restrictions
(NAFTA) is the treaty that created
the free-trading zone among the United States, Mexico,
among member nations and unified internal trade rules,
and Canada. The agreement took effect in 1994, gradually
allowing goods and people to move freely among EU
eliminating trade barriers and investment restrictions
countries. The EU has also
over a 15-year period. Despite dire predictions of Americreated standardized politrading bloc A group of
can jobs flowing to Mexico, the U.S. economy has grown
cies for import and export
countries that have reduced or
significantly since the implementation of NAFTA. The
between EU countries and
even eliminated tariffs, allowing
Canadian and Mexican economies have thrived as well
the rest of the world, givfor the free flow of goods among
the member nations.
(although all three economies have slowed significantly
ing the member nations
during the global economic crisis).
more clout as a bloc than
common market A group
But NAFTA critics point out that the U.S. trade defieach would have had on its
of countries that have eliminated
tariffs and harmonized trading
cit with both Mexico and Canada has skyrocketed. While
own. Perhaps the EU’s most
rules to facilitate the free flow
exports to both nations have increased, imports have
economically significant
of goods among the member
grown far faster; both countries are among the top ten
move was the introduction
nations.
contributors to the total U.S. trade deficit, threatening
of a single currency, the
North American Free
the long-term health of the American economy. Other
euro, in 2002. Of the 15 EU
Trade Agreement
criticisms of NAFTA include increased pollution and
members at the time, 12 ad(NAFTA) The treaty among
worker abuse. Companies that move their factories to
opted the euro (exceptions
the United States, Mexico,
and Canada that eliminated
Mexico to capitalize on lower costs also take advantage
were the United Kingdom,
trade barriers and investment
of looser environmental and worker-protection laws,
Sweden, and Denmark).
restrictions over a 15-year period
creating major ethical concerns. But the full impact
The EU also affects the
starting in 1994.
of NAFTA—for better or for worse—is tough to evaluglobal economy with its
European Union (EU) The
leading-edge approach to
ate because so many other variables affect all three
world’s largest common market,
environmental protection,
economies.29
composed of 28 European
A key message of President Trump’s 2016 presidenquality production, and
nations.
tial campaign was that NAFTA was a “total disaster” for the
human rights.
CHAPTER 3: The World Marketplace: Business without Borders
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

53

Exhibit 3.3

European Union 2016
Member
Candidate
Iceland

Sweden
Finland
Norway
Russia
United
Kingdom

Est.
Lat.

Ireland

Denmark

Lith.

R.

Netherlands

Belarus
Poland

Germany
Belgium
Luxembourg

Portugal

Ukraine

Czech Rep.
Liechtenstein
Austria

Switzerland

San
Marino

Slo.

Monaco

Romania
Bosnia and
Herzegovina
Serb.
Bulgaria
Kosovo

Hungary

Cro.

Andorra
Spain

Moldova

Slov .

France

Italy
Mont.
Va tican
city Estate

Mace.

Turkey
Albania
Greece

Malta

Reasons to Create Trade Restrictions

Reasons to Eliminate Trade Restrictions

Protect domestic industry (e.g., the U.S. steel industry)

Reduce prices and increase choices for consumers by encouraging competition from around the world

Protect domestic jobs in key industries (but perhaps at the cost of domestic
jobs in other industries)

Increase domestic jobs in industries with a comparative advantage versus
other countries

Protect national security interests

Increase jobs—both at home and abroad—from foreign companies

Retaliate against countries who have engaged in unfair trade practices

Build exporting opportunities through better relationships with other
countries

Pressure other countries to change their policies and practices

Use resources more efficiently on a worldwide basis

In 2010 and 2011, hobbled by overwhelming debt
and slow growth, several of the weaker EU countries—
most notably Greece—spiraled into economic crisis.
Fearing a financial domino effect, due to the close
ties among the nations, the economically stronger EU

54

Cyprus

countries cobbled together several bailout packages.
But many economists still fear that its weaker members
could drag the EU overall into a deep, damaging recession and that one or more countries could default on
its debt, withdraw from using the euro as currency, or

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

A Problem? An Opportunity? Or Both?

Ververidis Vasilis/Shutterstock.com

Between 2014 and 2016, approximately 3 million refugees poured into the European Union (EU) from Syria and other
war-torn conflict zones in the Middle East. The overwhelming majority of those refugees sought a safe haven for
themselves and their families—an opportunity to work hard and build a better future. They also sought to capitalize on
the generous European social system, which provides education, healthcare, and ideally a chance at a fresh start. But
not every country offered these newcomers a warm welcome. With economic growth rates slowing across Europe, many
expressed concern about the high cost of integrating refugees. Others predicted a cultural clash between the refugees
and current residents. Still others worried that the refugees would take their jobs. Despite these concerns, chances
are good that the refugee influx will prove to be less of a crisis and more of an opportunity for the European Union.
According to International Monetary Fund (IMF) research, host countries will experience a long-term increase in their
GDPs as the refugees integrate into the workforce.
This workforce boost may be especially meaningful
given that the populations of many EU countries
are aging rapidly. The refugee population is
relatively young, so they stand to replace workers
who may soon be retiring in record numbers. Still,
the IMF study emphasizes that rapid labor market
integration is critical. EU governments may need to
spend large sums of money to deal with the influx
of refugees, but the impact of those expenses
will be “short-lived and temporary.” People who
respond fearfully to the refugee crisis might do
well to remember that co-founder of Apple Steve
Jobs was the son of a Syrian immigrant to the
United States.32

both, with devastating financial consequences for both
the EU and the world economy.
In mid-2016, the United Kingdom, which includes
England, Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland, held
a referendum on whether to exit the European Union.
After an intense and divisive campaign, the UK public voted to leave the EU in a very close vote. Dubbed
Brexit (a combination of the words “British” and “exit”),
the decision to leave was quite unexpected.33 Many
political and economic analysts have voiced deep
concerns about the impact that Brexit will have on
the United Kingdom as well as the rest of the world—
especially in light of London’s position as an international
banking center. The initial vote is likely to be final, but
the implementation of Brexit will not be immediate.
There will be an initial two-year negotiation with the
EU about the terms of withdrawal. This negotiation is
unlikely to be favorable toward Britain, in part so that

the EU can discourage other countries from withdrawing. The EU has leverage with regard to items such as
terms of trade.
So why did Britain want out? The two major issues
at play were immigration and self-determination. Many
British citizens, especially older and more rural populations in England, were concerned that the country’s
unemployment and social services would be swamped
under the weight of new immigrant arrivals as mandated
by the EU. Many Brits were also concerned that that the
country’s identity and direction would increasingly be
determined by the EU and become fused into a continental identity. The ultimate impact of the British exit will
be unclear for months, and likely years, to come. The next
several years in particular will be critical to the shape, size,
and structure of the European economy. By early 2017, a
number of other countries were agitating their leaders in
favor of a withdrawal vote.34

CHAPTER 3: The World Marketplace: Business without Borders
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

55

THE BIG PICTURE
The past decade has been marked by extraordinary changes in the world economy. The
boundaries between individual countries have fallen lower than
ever before, creating a new level of economic connectedness.
The growing integration has created huge opportunities for
visionary companies of every size. But integration also means
risk. The dangers became clear in 2008, when the economic
crisis in the United States rapidly reverberated around the globe,
fueling a deep, worldwide recession.
To succeed abroad—especially in tough economic times—
individual firms must make the right choices about how to

structure their operations, surmount barriers to trade, meet
diverse customer needs, manage a global workforce, and
handle complex logistics. Human rights and environmental
protection continue to be especially critical for international
businesses. Both are vital components of social responsibility
and will only gain importance as advocates raise awareness
around the world. In the face of economic, political, and
social flux, effective global business leaders must master
both strategy and implementation at a deeper level than
ever before.

C AREERS IN INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
International Sports
Marketing Manager
Implement marketing plans outside the United States with a
focus on Europe, Australia, and New Zealand. Work with global

STUDY TOOLS

brand marketing team to develop and execute events that
­incorporate athletes. Participate in the scouting process to
identify and ­pursue up-and-coming athletes in relevant sports.
Provide ­support for the endorsement contract negotiation
process.

3

LOCATED AT BACK OF THE TEXTBOOK
■■

Rip-Out Chapter Review Card

■■

Gain unique perspectives on key concepts with new concept
videos in the e-book
Increase your comprehension with online homework and
quizzes

■■

56

■■

Study with existing flashcards and make your own

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

4

Business Ethics and Social
Responsibility:
Doing Well by Doing Good

LEARNING OBJECTIVES
4-1 Define ethics and explain the concept of universal ethical standards

Remember to visit

4-2 Describe business ethics and ethical dilemmas

PAGE 74

4-3 Discuss how ethics relates to both the individual and the organization
4-4 Define social responsibility and examine the impact on stakeholder groups
4-5 Explain the role of social responsibility in the global arena

for additional

STUDY TOOLS

4-6 Describe how companies evaluate their efforts to be socially responsible

4-1

E THICS AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: A CLOSE RELATIONSHIP

Ethics and social responsibility—often discussed in the same breath—are
closely related, but they are definitely not the same. Ethics refers to sets
of beliefs about right and wrong, good and bad; business ethics involve
the application of these issues in the workplace. Clearly, ethics relate
to individuals and their day-to-day decision making. Just as clearly, the
decisions of each individual can affect the entire organization.
Social responsibility is the obligation of a business to
contribute to society. The most socially responsible
firms feature proactive policies that focus on meeting
the needs of all their stakeholders—not just investors
but also employees, customers, the broader community,
and the environment. The stance of a company regarding social responsibility sets the tone for the organization and clearly influences
the decisions of individual
employees.
ethics A set of beliefs about
Although this chapter
right and wrong, good and bad.
discusses ethics and social

58

responsibility separately, keep in mind that the two areas
have a dynamic, interactive relationship that plays a vital
role in building both profitable businesses and a vibrant
community.
4-1a Defining Ethics: Murkier

than You’d Think

In the most general sense, ethics refer to sets of beliefs
about right and wrong, good and bad. While your
individual ethics stem from who you are as a human being,
your family, your social group, and your culture also play a

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Kathy Hutchins/Shutterstock.com

After studying this chapter, you will be able to:

significant role in shaping your ethics. And therein lies the
challenge: in the United States, people come from such
diverse backgrounds that establishing broad agreement
on specific ethical standards can be daunting. The global
arena only amplifies the challenge.
A given country’s legal system provides a solid starting
point for examining ethical standards. The function of laws
in the United States (and elsewhere) is to establish and
enforce ethical norms that apply to everyone within our
society. Laws provide basic standards of behavior. But truly
ethical behavior goes beyond the basics. In other words,
your actions can be completely legal, yet still unethical. But
since the legal system is far from perfect, in rare instances
your actions can be illegal, yet still ethical. Exhibit 4.1 shows
some examples of how business conduct can fall within
legal and ethical dimensions. Clearly, legal and ethical actions should be your goal. Legality should be the floor—not
the ­ceiling—for how to behave in business and ­elsewhere.
Do all actions have ethical implications? Clearly not.
Some decisions fall within the realm of free choice with
no direct link to right and wrong, good and bad. Examples
might include what color T-shirt you choose to wear, what
levels your game development company includes in its new
video game, or what sunglasses you decide to purchase.

“C
The
orporate
chief business
responsibility
of theis
the
American
best strategic
people is
asbusiness”
well
as financial path thatC most
A LV I N C O O L I D G E
A
M
E
R
I
CAN PRESIDENT
businesses can follow.”
—JEFFREY HOLLENDER, ENTREPRENEUR
A N D B U S I N E S S C O N S U LTA N T

4-1b Universal Ethical Standards:

A Reasonable Goal or Wishful Thinking?

Too many people view ethics as relative. In other
words, their ethical standards shift depending on the
situation and how it relates to them. Here are a few
examples:
■■

“It’s not okay to steal paper from the office supply
store…but it’s perfectly fine to ‘borrow’ supplies from
the storage closet at work to use at home. Why?
The company owes me a bigger salary.”

■■

“It’s wrong to lie…but it’s okay to call in sick when
I have personal business to take care of. Why? I
don’t want to burn through my limited vacation
days.”

CHAPTER 4: Business Ethics and Social Responsibility: Doing Well by Doing Good
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

59

EXHIBIT 4.1 LEGAL-ETHICAL MATRIX
Legal and Unethical

Legal and Ethical

Promoting high-calorie/low-nutrient foods with inadequate
information about the risks

Producing high-quality products

Producing products that you know will break before their time

Rewarding integrity
Leading by example

Paying nonliving wages to workers in developing ­countries

Treating employees fairly
Contributing to the community
Respecting the environment

Illegal and Unethical

Illegal and Ethical

Embezzling money

Providing rock-bottom prices only to distributors in underserved areas

Engaging in sexual harassment

Collaborating with other medical clinics to guarantee low prices in low-income
counties (collusion)

Practicing collusion with competitors
Encouraging fraudulent accounting

■■

“Everyone should have a level playing field. . .but
it’s fine to give my brother the first shot at my
company’s contract. Why? I know he really needs
the work.”

This kind of two-faced thinking is dangerous because
it can help people rationalize bigger and bigger ethical
deviations. But the problem can be fixed by identifying
universal ethical standards that apply to everyone
across a broad spectrum of situations. Some people argue
that we could never find universal standards for a country
as diverse as the United States. But the nonprofit, nonpartisan Character Counts organization has worked with a diverse group of educators, community leaders, and ethicists
to identify six core values, listed in Exhibit 4.2, that transcend political, religious, class, and ethnic divisions.
universal ethical
standards

4-2

business ethics The
application of right and wrong,
good and bad, in a business
setting.
ethical dilemma A
decision that involves a
conflict of values; every
potential course of action has
some significant negative
consequences.

60

■■

Imagine that you did a great job on a recent project
at your company. Your boss has been very vocal
about acknowledging your work and the increased
revenue that resulted from it. Privately, she said that
you clearly earned a bonus of at least 10%, but due to
company politics, she was unable to secure the bonus for you. She also implied that if you were to submit inflated expense reports for the next few months,
she would look the other way, and you could pocket
the extra cash as well-deserved compensation for
your contributions.

■■

Uber: Are Uber drivers employees of the Uber Corporation, or are they their own bosses (independent contractors)? It depends on who you ask. According to the
Uber Corporation, its drivers are definitely independent
contractors. In fact, the company requires all new drivers
to sign a form acknowledging as much. This means that
drivers do not get access to benefits or other protections such as workers’ compensation and unemployment insurance, which leaves them financially vulnerable as they continue to contribute to the enormous
value of the world’s largest private venture-backed

BUSINESS

ETHICS:
NOT AN
OXYMORON

Ethical norms that apply to all
people across a broad spectrum
of situations.

decisions seem to arise when values are in conflict…when
whatever you do will have negative consequences, forcing you to choose among bad options. These are true
ethical dilemmas. (Keep in mind that ethical dilemmas
differ from ethical lapses, which involve clear misconduct.)
Here are three examples of ethical dilemmas:

Quite simply, business
ethics is the application of
right and wrong, good and
bad in a business setting. But
this isn’t as straightforward
as it may initially seem. The
most challenging business

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Who Should Die? And Who Should Decide?

start-up. Is this fair? Not so much. In 2015, driver groups
in Massachusetts and California sued Uber to be reclassified as employees. The two parties eventually reached
a settlement that gave drivers some concessions but left
them as independent contractors. In 2016, however, a
federal judge rejected the settlement, declaring that it
was “not fair, adequate, and reasonable.” The two parties
are currently preparing to go to a jury trial. The outcome
of this trial will affect not only the Uber Corporation
and its drivers but also the overall structure of the gig
economy that so many of us have come to rely on in
one way or another.1
■■

Facebook: For one week in 2012, Facebook changed
the content mix in the News Feeds of more than half
a million users—without asking their permission—in
an effort to gauge their emotional response. Although
the manipulation was covered under
Facebook’s terms of service, many users
were outraged at what they considered
an unethical psychological experiment
without their permission. Facebook
COO Sheryl Sandberg issued a classic
nonapology: “It was poorly communicated. And for that communication we apologize.” In actuality,
the experiment was not communicated at all.

4-3

E THICS: MULTIPLE
TOUCHPOINTS

Although each person must make his or her own ethical
choices, the organization can have a significant influence
on the quality of those decisions.
4-3a Ethics and the Individual:

The Power of One

Ethical choices begin with ethical individuals. Your
personal needs, your family, your culture, and your religion all influence your value system. Your personality traits—self-esteem, self-confidence, independence,
and sense of humor—play a significant role as well.
A recent study suggested that personal empathy—
“identification with and understanding
of another’s situation, feelings, and
motives”—is another strong predictor of ethical leadership. In fact,
business leaders who scored highest on empathy also exhibited the
highest levels of ethical leadership.
These factors all come into play as
you face ethical dilemmas. The challenge can be overwhelming, which
has led a range of experts to develop
Juli Hansen/Shutterstock.com

A major hurdle in programming a robot to make ethical
decisions is anticipating the virtually endless number of
scenarios that the robot might face. One possible solution is to
randomize the robot’s response, but that approach complete
evades human responsibility and negates the potential positive

power of human judgment. Courts, insurance companies, and
governments around the world will certainly weigh in on how
robots are and should be programmed. Clearly, contemporary
“moral math” is nothing if not complex.

Martial Red/Shutterstock.com

Imagine that your driverless robotic car blows a tire while
careening down a lovely mountain road. Your car still has some
degree of control, but it is quickly becoming clear that this is
not going to end well. On one side of you is oncoming traffic
(several cars and a family of bicyclists), and on the other is a
very, very steep cliff. Should the car slam into the oncoming
traffic to save your life, or send you careening over the cliff
to save others? This is not just an abstract question—it’s an
authentic ethical dilemma that businesses will increasingly
need to face as more and more consumer machinery takes on a
superhuman ability to react to danger.

CHAPTER 4: Business Ethics and Social Responsibility: Doing Well by Doing Good
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

61

frameworks for reaching ethical decisions. While the specifics vary, the key principles of most decision guides are
very similar:
■■

Do you fully understand each dimension of the
­problem?

■■

Who would benefit? Who would suffer?

■■

Are the alternative solutions legal? Are they fair?

■■

Does your decision make you comfortable at a “gut
feel” level?

■■

■■

Could you defend your decision on the nightly TV
news?
Have you considered and reconsidered your responses
to each question?2

The approach seems simple, but in practice it really
isn’t. Workers—and managers, too—often face enormous
pressure to do what’s right for the company or right for their
career, rather than simply what’s right. And keep in mind
that it’s completely possible for two people to follow the
framework and arrive at completely different decisions, each
feeling confident that he or she has made the right choice.

EXHIBIT 4.2

U NIVERSAL ETHICAL
STANDARDS

Trustworthiness

Be honest.
Don’t deceive, cheat, or steal.
Do what you say you’ll do.

Respect

Be considerate.
Be tolerant of differences.

Responsibility

Although each person is clearly responsible for his or her
own actions, the organization can influence those actions
to a startling degree. Not surprisingly, that influence starts
at the top, and actions matter far more than words. The
president of the Ethics Resource Center states, “CEOs in
particular must communicate their personal commitment to high ethical standards and consistently drive
the message down to employees through their actions.”
Any other approach—even just the appearance of shaky
ethics—can be deeply damaging to a company’s ethical
climate. Here are a couple of examples from the wake of
the Great Recession:

Persevere.
Be self-controlled and self-­disciplined.
Be accountable for your choices.

Fairness

Provide equal opportunity.
Be open-minded.
Don’t take advantage of others.

Caring

Be kind.
Be compassionate.
Express gratitude.

Citizenship

Contribute to the community.
Protect the environment.

4-3b Ethics and the Organization:

It Takes a Village

Treat others how you’d like to be treated.

Cooperate whenever feasible.
Source: © 2009 Josephson Institute. Reprinted from the Josephson Institute’s Report Card on the Ethics of
American Youth Summary with permission.

class or jet-pooled or something to get here? It
would have at least sent a message that you do get
it.” Not surprisingly, the execs left empty-handed.3
■■

 each Junket: A few days after the Fed committed $85
B
billion to keep AIG out of bankruptcy, the insurer spent
more than $440,000 on a sales “retreat” at a luxury
resort in California. Expenditures included $150,000 for
food, $23,000 in spa charges, and $7,000 for golf. Rather
than apologizing, CEO Edward Liddy only commented
that the company would examine its expenses.4

Gross Excess: In 2009, ousted Merrill Lynch CEO
John Thain agreed—under pressure from President
automakers—two of them hovering on the edge
Obama—to reimburse federal bailout recipient Bank
of bankruptcy—went to Washington to request
of America for an expensive, and fully approved,
a $25 billion bailout package, they flew in three
renovation of his office that had
separate corporate jets at an
been done before the crisis hit. The
estimated cost of $20,000
somewhat outrageous expenses in”Our philosophy is
per round-trip flight. All
cluded an $87,000 area rug, a $5,000
three were operating in line
that we care about
mirror, and a $35,000 commode.
with official corporate travel
people
first.“
Are these decisions wrong?
policies, but it just didn’t look
—MARK ZUCKERBERG,
Unethical?5 How do you feel about
right. One lawmaker pointFACEBOOK FOUNDER
the business decisions described
edly asked, “Couldn’t you all
in Exhibit 4.3?
have downgraded to first

■ High Flyers: When the CEOs of the Big Three

62

■■

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

EXHIBIT 4.3

ETHICS AT WORK: HOW WOULD YOU JUDGE THE ACTIONS OF THESE BUSINESS LEADERS? 6

Pierre Omidyar eBay creator Omidyar has contributed $100 million to the Tufts University Micro Finance Fund. His goal is to give economic power to poor
people around the world through small business loans. Ultimately, he hopes to create entrepreneurial self-sufficiency as eBay has done for so many avid
users.
Sherron Watkins Despite intense pressure and high personal stakes, Watkins, a former vice president of Enron, reported the accounting irregularities that
led to the discovery of staggering corporate fraud.
Stanley O’Neal As investment house Merrill Lynch began racking up losses that led to its collapse, CEO O’Neal announced his “retirement” and walked
away with a compensation package worth more than $160 million.
Scott Thompson After less than six months as CEO of Yahoo!, Thompson left under a murky cloud when activist shareholders pointed out that an entry on
his résumé was inaccurate, claiming a degree in computer science that he does not have.
Bill Gates As Microsoft CEO, Bill Gates made some ethically shaky moves, but he and his wife also established the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation,
by far the largest U.S. charity. Working for the foundation, Gates applies his famous problem-solving skills to global health, global development,
and American education.
Jessica Alba: As a follow-up to her successful acting career, Alba launched The Honest Company to promote health products that were “honestly free” of
dangerous chemicals. However, Alba faced a number of lawsuits from disgruntled consumers who claimed that her products contained unnatural ingredients and that her firm engages in deceptive marketing.

4-3c Creating and Maintaining

an Ethical Organization

Research from the Ethics Resource Center (ERC) suggests
that organizational culture has more influence than any
other variable on the ethical conduct of individual employees. According to the ERC, key elements of a strong culture
include displays of ethics-related actions at all levels of an
organization and accountability for actions. The impact of
these elements can be dramatic. Consider, for example, the
following research results:
■■

A 61-percentage-point favorable difference in the level
of observed misconduct when employees say they
work in a strong ethical culture.

■■

When employees felt that the Great Recession negatively impacted the ethical culture of their company,
misconduct rose by 16 percentage points.

■■

ERC research showed that companies behave differently during economic difficulties. The decisions
and behaviors of their leaders are perceived by
employees as a heightened commitment to ethics.
As a result, employees adopt a higher standard of
conduct for themselves.7

Robert Lane, former CEO of Deere, a highly performing, highly ethical corporation, believes in the importance
of senior management commitment to ethics, but he points
out that the “tone at the top” must be reinforced by the actual behavior observed by suppliers, dealers, customers, and
employees. At Deere, this is summed up in highly visible,
frequently referenced shorthand known as “the how.” Lane

declares that to establish an ethical culture, ethical words
must be “backed up with documented practices, processes,
and procedures, all understood around the globe.”8
ERC research further supports the need for senior
manager commitment by showing that when employees
perceive more management commitment, they tend to
be more fully engaged. More-engaged employees are
much less likely to behave badly, and much more likely to

Every year, the Ethisphere Institute
publishes a list of the world’s most
ethical companies. Ethisphere’s 2017 list
featured 124 honorees from 19 countries
and across 52 industry sectors, including
3M, Ford, Microsoft, Starbucks, T-Mobile,
Target, and UPS. For the complete list, visit
worldsmostethicalcompanies.ethisphere.com.

CHAPTER 4: Business Ethics and Social Responsibility: Doing Well by Doing Good
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

63

1. Get executive buy-in and commitment to follow
through. Top managers need to communicate—even
overcommunicate—about the importance of ethics.
But talking works only when it’s backed up by action:
senior management must give priority to keeping
promises and leading by example.
code of ethics A formal,
written document that defines
the ethical standards of an
organization and gives employees
the information they need to
make ethical decisions across a
range of situations.

whistle-blowers Employees
who report their employer’s illegal
or unethical behavior to either the
authorities or the media.
social responsibility The
obligation of a business to
contribute to society.

64

2. Establish expectations
for ethical behavior
at all levels of the
organization, from the
CEO to the nighttime
cleaning crew. Be sure
that outside parties
such as suppliers, distributors, and customers understand the
standards.
3. Integrate ethics into
mandatory staff
training. From newemployee orientation

		 to ongoing training, ethics must play a role. Additional,
more specialized training helps employees who face
more temptation (e.g., purchasing agents, overseas
sales reps).

ers toc k.c om

4. Ensure that your ethics code is both global
and local in scope. Employees in every country
should understand both the general principles
and the specific applications. Be sure to translate it into as many languages as necessary.

Bo rtN 66 /Shutt

report others who do, which dramatically lowers the risk
for the company.9
A strong organizational culture works in tandem
with formal ethics programs to create and maintain ethical work environments. A written code
of ethics is the cornerstone of any formal ethics
program. The purpose of a written code is to
give employees the information they need
to make ethical decisions across a range of
situations. Clearly, an ethics code becomes
even more important for multinational
companies, since it lays out unifying values
and priorities for divisions that are rooted
in different cultures. But a written code is
worthless if it doesn’t reflect living principles.
An effective code of ethics flows directly from ethical
corporate values and leads directly to ongoing communication, training, and action.
Specific codes of ethics vary greatly among organizations. Perhaps the best-known code is the
Johnson & Johnson Credo, which has guided the company profitably—with a soaring reputation—through a
number of crises that would have sunk lesser organizations. One of the striking elements of the credo is the firm
focus on fairness. It carefully refrains from overpromising
financial rewards, committing instead to a “fair return” for
stockholders.
To bring a code of ethics to life, experts advocate a
forceful, integrated approach to ethics that virtually always
includes the following steps:

5. Build and maintain a clear, trusted reporting structure for ethical concerns and
violations. The structure should allow
employees to seek anonymous guidance
for ethical concerns and to report ethics
violations anonymously.
6. Establish protection for whistle-­blowers,
people who report illegal or unethical
behavior. Be sure that no ­retaliation occurs,
in compliance with both ethics and the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act (see discussion later
in the chapter). Some have even suggested
that whistle-blowers should receive a
portion of the penalties levied against
firms that violate the law.

7. Enforce the code of ethics. When people violate ethical norms, companies must respond immediately
and—whenever appropriate—publicly to retain employee trust. Without enforcement, the code of ethics
becomes ­meaningless.

4-4

D EFINING SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY: MAKING
THE WORLD A BETTER PLACE

Social responsibility is the obligation of a business
to contribute to society. Similar to ethics, the broad definition is clear, but specific implementation can be complex. Obviously, the number-one goal of any business is
long-term profits; without profits, other contributions are
impossible. But once a firm achieves a reasonable return,
the balancing act begins: How can a company balance the
need to contribute against the need to boost profits, especially when the two conflict? The answer depends on the
business’s values, mission, resources, and management
philosophy, which lead in turn to its position on social responsibility. Business approaches fall across the spectrum,
from no contribution to proactive contribution, as shown
in Exhibit 4.4.

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Exhibit 4.4

The Spectrum of Social Responsibility

LESS
Responsible

No
Contribution
Some businesses do not
recognize an obligation to
society and do only what’s
legally required.

MORE

Responsive
Contributions

Proactive
Contributions

Some businesses choose to
respond on a case-by-case
basis to market requests for
contributions.

Some businesses choose to
integrate social responsibility
into their strategic plans,
contributing as part of their
business goals.

4-4a The Stakeholder Approach:

Responsibility to Whom?

Stakeholders are any groups that have a stake—or
a personal interest—in the performance and actions of
an organization. Different stakeholders have ­different
needs, expectations, and levels of interest. The federal
government, for instance, is a key stakeholder in pharmaceutical companies but a very minor stakeholder in
local art studios. The community at large is a key stakeholder for a coffee shop chain but a minor stakeholder
for a web design firm. Enlightened organizations identify
key stakeholders for their ­business and consider stakeholder priorities in their decision making. The goal is to
balance their needs and priorities as effectively as possible, with an eye toward building their business over the
long term. Core stakeholder groups for most businesses
are employees, customers, investors, and the broader
­community.

Responsibility to Employees: Creating Jobs
that Work Jobs alone aren’t enough. The starting point
for socially responsible employers is to meet legal standards, and the requirements are significant. How would
you judge the social responsibility of the firms listed in
Exhibit 4.5? Employers must comply with laws that include
equal opportunity, workplace safety, minimum-wage and
overtime requirements, protection from sexual harassment, and family and medical unpaid leaves. We will discuss these legal requirements (and others) in Chapter 15 on
Human Resource Management.

Responsible

But socially responsible employers go far beyond the
law. They create a workplace environment that respects the
dignity and value of each employee. They ensure that hard
work, commitment, and talent pay off. They move beyond
minimal safety requirements to establish proactive protections, such as ergonomically correct chairs and computer
screens that reduce eyestrain. And the best employers
respond to the ongoing employee search for a balance
between work and personal life. With an increasing number of workers facing challenges such as raising kids and
caring for elderly parents, responsible companies are stepping in with programs such as on-site day care, companysponsored day camp, and referral services for elder care.

Responsibility to Customers: Value, Honesty,
and Communication One core responsibility of
business is to deliver consumer value by providing quality products at fair prices. Honesty and communication are
critical components of this equation. Consumerism—a
widely accepted social movement—suggests that consumer rights should be the
stakeholders Any groups
starting point. In the early
that have a stake—or a personal
1960s, President Kennedy
interest—in the performance and
defined these rights, which
actions of an organization.
most businesses respect in
consumerism A social
response to both consumer
movement that focuses on four
expectations and legal
key consumer rights: (1) the right
requirements:
to be safe, (2) the right to be
■■

The Right to Be Safe:
Businesses are legally

informed, (3) the right to choose,
and (4) the right to be heard.

CHAPTER 4: Business Ethics and Social Responsibility: Doing Well by Doing Good
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

65

responsible for injuries and damages caused by their
products—even if they have no reason to suspect that
their products might cause harm. This makes it easy
for consumers to file suits. In some cases, the drive to
avert lawsuits has led to absurdities such as the warning on some coffee cups: “Caution! Hot coffee is hot!”
(No kidding…)
■■

■■

The Right to Be Informed: The law requires firms
in a range of industries—from mutual funds, to
groceries, to pharmaceuticals—to provide the
public with extensive information. The Food and
Drug Administration, for instance, mandates
that most grocery foods feature a very specific
“Nutrition Facts” label. Beyond legal requirements,
many firms use the Web to provide a wealth of
extra information about their products. KFC, for
example, offers an interactive Nutrition Calculator
that works with all of its menu items (and it’s fun
to use, too).
The Right to Choose: Freedom of choice is a fundamental element of the capitalist U.S. economy.
Our economic system works largely because
consumers freely choose to purchase the products that best meet their needs. As businesses
compete, consumer value increases. Socially
responsible firms support consumer choice by

following the laws that prevent anticompetitive
behavior such as predatory pricing, collusion, and
monopolies.
■■

The Right to Be Heard: Socially responsible companies make it easy for consumers to express legitimate
complaints. They also develop highly trained
customer service people to respond to complaints.
In fact, smart businesses view customer complaints
as an opportunity to create better products and
stronger relationships. Statistics suggest that 1 in
50 dissatisfied customers takes the time to complain.
The other 49 quietly switch brands. By soliciting
feedback, you’re not only being responsible but also
building your business.10

“In this era of corporate
scandals, we must refocus our
energies on corporate ethics
and encourage individuals to
report wrongdoing.”
—JORDAN THOMAS, CHAIR,
W H I S T L E B L O W E R R E P R E S E N TAT I O N
P R A C T I C E , L A B AT O N S U C H A R O W

EXHIBIT 4.5 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT WORK
How Would You Judge the Actions of These Firms?11

66

The Clorox Company In early 2008, Clorox introduced a line of “99%
natural” cleaning products called Green Works. This was the first such
effort from a major consumer products company, and also the first time
that the Sierra Club endorsed a product line by allowing the use of its logo
on the labels. In return, Clorox makes an annual contribution to the Sierra
Club, the amount based on total Green Works sales.

Enron/Arthur Andersen (now defunct) Enron, once hailed as
a shining example of corporate excellence, collapsed in late 2001 due
to massive accounting fraud, which bilked employees and other small
investors out of millions of dollars. Arthur Andersen, hired to audit Enron’s
accountings, participated in the scandal by masking the issues and shredding documents containing potential evidence.

Facebook For one week in 2012, Facebook changed the content mix
in the News Feeds of more than half a million users—without asking
their permission—in an effort to gauge their emotional response.
Although the manipulation was covered under Facebook’s terms of
service, many users were outraged at what they considered an unethical
psychological experiment without their permission. Facebook COO
Sheryl Sandberg issued a classic nonapology: “It was poorly communicated. And for that communication we apologize.” In actuality, the
experiment was not communicated at all.

Subway Eating “fresh” may not sound so appetizing once you learn
that Subway’s chicken products could be made from less than 50% actual
chicken. According to tests performed at Trent University in Canada, the
remainder of a Subway chicken breast patty consists of soy and other filler
ingredients. Subway denies the allegations. In 2014, however, Subway
customers learned that a food-grade material also found in yoga mats was
used to make the company’s bread. Subway removed the ingredient and
pledged to remove all artificial ingredients from its food in North America
by 2017.12

Kraft As obesity among kids spirals out of control, Kraft has taken a brave
stand: a pledge to stop advertising unhealthy—yet highly profitable—
foods to young children. Kraft also plans to eliminate in-school marketing
and drop some unhealthy snacks from school vending machines. As the
king of the food business, Kraft has chosen what’s right for kids over what’s
right for its own short-term profits.

AIG After the U.S. government pulled AIG from the brink of bankruptcy
in 2008 with a bailout that topped $182 billion, the AIG board of directors
voted in early 2013 about whether to join a lawsuit against the government, which claimed that the interest rate on the initial loan was excessive
and the rescue was unfair to shareholders. Faced with public wrath and
ridicule, they ultimately opted out of the lawsuit, but not before they
further damaged their reputation among the general public.

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Delivering quality products is another key component
of social responsibility to consumers. Planned obsolescence—deliberately designing products to fail in order
to shorten the time between consumer repurchases—­
represents a clear violation of social responsibility. In the
long term, the market itself weeds out offenders. After all,
who would repurchase a product that meets a premature
end? But in the short term, planned obsolescence thins
consumer wallets and abuses consumer trust.
When businesses do make mistakes, apologizing to consumers won’t guarantee renewed sales. But a sincere apology can definitely restore a company’s reputation, which can
ultimately lead to greater profits. Here are some examples:
■ Going with the Flow: In late 2010, Johnson & Johnson

discontinued the popular o.b. Ultra tampons. Loyal
users stripped the shelves of remaining stock (bidding
the price of a box of Ultras up to more than $100 on
eBay) and bombarded the manufacturer with complaints. In late 2011, Johnson & Johnson announced
that Ultras would be back on shelf by late 2012, and
offered an apology video rife with every cliché imaginable, including a handsome, male singer. The music
video was customizable; viewer names appeared
throughout the video, and the video closed with a

coupon offer. The video represented a masterful attempt to regain loyalty for a product that had yet to
reappear on the shelf.13
Investors count on companies to spend money wisely and
fully disclose all key facts.
■ Apple Angst: Apple introduced the iPhone on June

29, 2007, to rave reviews and stellar sales, despite the
$599 price tag. But two months later, Apple dropped
the price of the phone by $200 to expand the user
base further. Not surprisingly, early adopters were
livid—why, they demanded, did Apple repay their
trust and support by ripping them off? CEO Steve Jobs
quickly apologized and offered every $599 iPhone customer a $100 Apple store credit. The response seemed
to work. In 2008, Apple’s ranking in the American
Customer Satisfaction Index climbed 8%, a full
10 percentage points ahead of its nearest competitor,
maintaining a dramatic lead through 2011.14
■ More Apple Angst: In September 2012, Apple released

an updated version of its mobile Maps program,
which iPhone users quickly realized was a hot mess
that ­featured too many wrong directions, misplaced
­locations, and bizarre satellite images. CEO Tim Cook sent
a contrite apology to ­customers, but basically referred
them to archrival Google Maps, after acknowledging
that Apple’s Maps was not up to par. He ended the apology with some puffery about how Apple aims to make
all their products “the best in the world.” The following
Christmas, iPhone sales underperformed analyst expectations, and the stock price plummeted, which may have
been completely unrelated to the Maps debacle.15
In 2015, Apple demonstrated
that actions speak louder than words—and actions
taken quickly enough can mitigate the need for an apology altogether. When Taylor Swift boycotted the company’s new music streaming service after the company
announced it wouldn’t pay artists during a free threemonth trial period, Apple made a quick fix by reversing
the policy and announcing the change on Twitter:
“#AppleMusic will pay artist for streaming, even during
customer’s free trial period,” and a minute later, “We hear
you @taylorswift13 and indie artists. Love, Apple.”

Source: Lululemon

■ Even More Apple Angst:

Taylor Swift boycotted Apple’s music
streaming service after the company
announced it wouldn’t pay artists during
a free three-month trial period. Apple
made a quick fix by reversing the policy
and announcing the change on Twitter.

­ esponsibility to ­Investors: Fair ­Stewardship
R
and Full Disclosure
The primary responsibility
of business to investors is
clearly to make money—to
create an ongoing stream
of profits. But companies
achieve and maintain

planned obsolescence
The strategy of deliberately
designing products to fail in order
to shorten the time between
purchases.

CHAPTER 4: Business Ethics and Social Responsibility: Doing Well by Doing Good
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

67

Profits and So Much More
partnerships with—and makes significant donations to—
organizations that help children and teens in meaningful ways.
For instance, when Little Pickle Press was launching a new book
about ending hunger, the company teamed up with a nonprofit
that feeds the hungry. Little Pickle then donated 15% of its net
sales to that group over a ten-month period.16

long-term earnings in the context of responsibility to all
stakeholders, which may mean trading short-term profits
for long-term success. Responsibility to investors starts
by meeting legal requirements, and in the wake of recent corporate scandals, the bar is higher than ever. The
2002 Sarbanes-Oxley Act limits conflict-of-interest issues by restricting the consulting services that accounting firms can provide for
the companies they audit.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Sarbanes-Oxley also reFederal legislation passed in 2002
quires that financial officers
that sets higher ethical standards
for public corporations and
and CEOs personally certify
accounting firms. Key provisions
the validity of their finanlimit conflict-of-interest issues
cial statements. (See Chapand require financial officers and
ter 8 for more detail on the
CEOs to certify the validity of their
financial statements.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act.)
But beyond legal recorporate philanthropy
quirements,
companies
All business donations to nonprofit
groups, including money,
have a number of additional
products, and employee time.
responsibilities to investors.
Spending money wisely
cause-related marketing
Marketing partnerships between
would be near the top of
businesses and nonprofit
the list. For instance, are exorganizations, designed to spike
ecutive retreats to the South
sales for the company and raise
Pacific on the company tab
money for the nonprofit.
legal? They probably are. Do

they represent a responsible use of corporate dollars? Now
that seems unlikely. Honesty is another key responsibility that
relates directly to financial predictions. No one can anticipate
exactly how a company will perform, and an overly optimistic
or pessimistic assessment is perfectly legal. But is it socially
responsible? It probably isn’t, especially if it departs too far
from the objective facts—which is, of course, a subjective call.

68

Lotus Images/Shutterstock.com

If the corporation you’re dealing with does not have profits as
a first priority, it may well be a B-Corp, or benefit corporation.
B-Corps are a new corporate structure that value profits, but
not more than other priorities such as employees, suppliers,
the community, and the environment. Benefit corporations
do not receive special tax treatment, but B-Corp status, like
the food producer’s organic certification, can offer a real
advantage, especially for firms competing in crowded markets.
Tim Frick, a B-Corp executive at MightyBytes, says that being a
benefit corporation is “being part of a larger global movement
of making sure that business is being used as a force for good
and not for evil.” It can also keep companies focused on what
makes them different, especially since firms must undergo
comprehensive annual audits to keep their status. Current
B-Corps fall across a range of industries and include businesses
of all different sizes. One example is Little Pickle Press, which
publishes children’s books, apps, and media. The firm is
dedicated to fostering kindness in young people through both
the messages of its books and the environmentally friendly
way it produces and distributes its books. Little Pickle forges

Responsibility to the Community: Business
and the Greater Good Beyond increasing everyone’s standard of living, businesses can contribute to
society in two main ways: philanthropy and responsibility. Corporate philanthropy includes all business
donations to nonprofit groups, including both money
and products. The Giving USA Foundation reported that
total corporate donations increased 3.9% in 2015, another banner year for giving across all sources (perhaps
due to the robust economy).17 Corporate philanthropy
also includes donations of employee time; in other
words, some companies pay their employees to spend
time volunteering at nonprofits. Patagonia, for example,
allows workers after one year of service to apply for twomonth internships with environmental not-for-profits,
during which time they’re still paid by Patagonia.18
Some companies contribute to nonprofits through
cause-related marketing. This involves a partnership

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

between a business and a nonprofit,
designed to spike sales for the company and raise money for the nonprofit. Unlike outright gifts, these
dollars are not tax deductible for
the company, but they can certainly
build the company’s brands.

“Consumers, investors,
entrepreneurs, and
policymakers have
recognized that
business is the most
powerful man-made
force on the planet
and it can be used as
a powerful force for
good.”

farming of the cocoa, spices, and
fruits. And Madécasse’s chocolate
tastes delicious, too!20

Responsibility to the Environment Protecting the environ-

Minerva Studio/Shutterstock.com

ment is perhaps the most crucial
Corporate responsibility
element of responsibility to the
relates closely to philanthropy but
community. Business is a huge
focuses on the actions of the busiconsumer of the world’s limited reness itself rather than donations
sources, from oil to timber, to fresh
of money and time. Starbucks
water, to minerals. In some cases,
has joined nearly 50 leading U.S.
the production process decimates
companies in a campaign to hire
the environment and spews pol1 million “Opportunity Youth” (16-to
lution into the air, land, and water,
— J AY C O E N , F O U N D E R
24-year-olds who are neither emsometimes causing irreversible
OF B-LAB
ployed nor in school—an estimated
damage. And the products created
5.4 million young Americans) by
by business can cause pollution as
2021.19 Taking a different approach to corporate responwell, such as the smog generated by cars and the
sibility, A to Z Wineworks in Oregon pays its workers 43%
sometimes-toxic waste caused by junked electronic parts.
over the local living wage and guarantees its growers fair
The government sets minimum standards for environprices in both good and bad years. Chocolatier Madécasse
mental protection at the federal, state, and local levels. But
noticed that Africa grows 70% of the world’s cocoa, yet proa growing number of companies are going further, develduces less than 1% of the world’s chocolate. The company
oping innovative strategies to build their businesses while
decided to change this statistic by making its chocolate
protecting the environment. Many have embraced the idea
entirely in Africa. Madécasse now empowers Madagascar’s
of sustainable development: doing business to meet
cocoa farmers with skills training and higher wages to make
the needs of this generation without harming the ability of
its chocolate right on the island. So far, the company has
future generations to meet their needs. This means weavcreated meaningful income for more than 200 people in
ing environmentalism throughout the business decisionMadagascar across a wide variety of specialties, including
making process. Since sustainable development can mean
chocolate making, packaging, shipping, and of course the
significant long-term cost savings, the economic crisis may
even push forward environmentally friendly programs.
The results of sustainability programs have been
impressive across a range of industries. McDonald’s, for
instance, produces mountains of garbage each year, as
do virtually all major fast-food chains. But the Golden
Arches stands above the others in its attempts to reduce
the problem. Following are some encouraging statistics:

Protecting the environment has become
the most crucial element of responsibility
to businesses across the globe.

■■

 y the end of 2008, McDonald’s UK was recycling 100%
B
of its used cooking oil for biodiesel to fuel delivery
trucks. This equates to
1,500 family cars being
corporate responsibility
removed from the road
Business contributions to the
each year.
community through the actions

■■

 n average, U.S.
O
company–owned
McDonald’s restaurant
recycles more than
17 tons of ­corrugated
cardboard per year
and approximately

of the business itself rather than
donations of money and time.

sustainable development
Doing business to meet the needs
of the current generation, without
harming the ability of future
generations to meet their needs.

CHAPTER 4: Business Ethics and Social Responsibility: Doing Well by Doing Good
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

69

13,000 pounds of used cooking oil
per year.21
Reducing the amount of trash is better
than recycling, but recycling trash clearly
beats dumping it in a landfill. McDonald’s
participates in this arena as well, through
their extensive recycling programs, but
more importantly as a big buyer of recycled products.
Taking an even broader perspective,
some firms have started to measure their
carbon footprint, with an eye toward reducing it. Carbon footprint refers to
the amount of harmful greenhouse gases
that a firm emits throughout its operations,
both directly and indirectly. The ultimate
goal is to become carbon neutral—either
to emit zero harmful gases or to counteract the impact of emissions by removing a
comparable amount from the atmosphere
through projects such as planting trees.
Dell Inc. became fully carbon neutral in
mid-2008, fulfilling its quest to become
“the greenest technology on the planet.”
More recently, PepsiCo calculated the carbon footprint for its Tropicana orange juice
brand and was surprised to learn that about
a third of its emissions came from applying
fertilizer to the orange groves. According
to the ­Conference Board, business leaders
have begun to see their carbon footprint—
both measurement and reduction—as
a burgeoning opportunity.22 Many large
corporations track three different types of
emissions. The first, called Scope 1, refers
to direct emissions produced by corporate operations. The second, called Scope 2, refers to emissions that result from purchased electricity, heat, and steam.
Scope 3 emissions, which are more complex to track, are
emissions that occur outside a company’s boundary, but
over which it has some
control. This category incarbon footprint Refers
cludes areas such as emto the amount of harmful
greenhouse gases that a firm
ployee ­commutes, supplier
emits throughout its operations,
­emissions, and product-use
both directly and indirectly.
emissions. When Stonyfield
green marketing
Farms, maker of organic yoDeveloping and promoting
gurt and other dairy prodenvironmentally sound
ucts, examined their Scope
products and practices to gain a
3 emissions, they came to
competitive edge.
the rather startling (and

70

Sorry! So, So Sorry!
Why is it so compelling to watch the rich and powerful squirm?
It’s hard to explain, but when CEOs of big companies apologize
for their mistakes, people love to watch, and their apologies
often go viral. Sometimes the apologies are sincere and heartfelt,
and everyone moves on; and sometimes they become targets of
ridicule. Here are a few noteworthy examples. You be the judge.
■■ In 2013, Chip Wilson, former CEO and co-founder of Lulule-

mon, stated to the press that “some women’s bodies just don’t
actually work” for Lululemon’s yoga pants. He apologized via a
YouTube video in which he declared, “I’m really sad. I’m sad for
the repercussions of my actions.” He didn’t even bother to address his offended customers.
■■ In mid-2014, Snapchat founder and CEO Evan Spiegel was dis-

mayed to learn that graphic emails from his party days as a Stanford
undergrad were published online. In them, Spiegel wrote about
getting sorority girls drunk and peeing on his date, among other
offensive stories. In response, he issued a statement saying, “I’m
obviously mortified and embarrassed that my idiotic emails during
my fraternity days were made public. I have no excuse. I’m sorry I
wrote them at the time and I was jerk to have written them. They in
no way reflect who I am today or my views towards women.”
■■ Two days after Volkswagen was faulted for using software to

cheat an industry-standard emissions test, CEO Martin Winterkorn
declared that he was deeply sorry and that the company would
“do everything necessary to reverse the damage this has caused.
This matter has first priority for me, personally.” First priority
apparently wasn’t enough to save Winterkorn’s job, since the
maligned CEO resigned soon after. Winterkorn announced that
he would accept responsibility to clear the way for a fresh start for
the company and win back the public’s trust. Only time will tell if
Winterkorn’s resignation wins back sales for Volkswagen, which
saw its stock tank after the emissions scandal broke.23

somewhat gross!) conclusion that most of their emissions did not come from manufacturing or transporting
their products, but from the methane gas produced by
the cows back at their suppliers’ farms! Interest in Scope 3
emissions is still somewhat new but seems sure to grow
as environmental accounting methods become more
sophisticated.24
A growing number of companies use green
marketing to promote their businesses. This means marketing environmental products and practices to gain a
competitive edge. Patagonia, for example, markets outdoor
clothing using 100% organic cotton and natural fibers such
as hemp. But green marketing represents a tough challenge: while most people support the idea of green products, the vast majority won’t sacrifice price, performance, or

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Does the Gender of Your Business Leaders Matter?

michaeljung/Shutterstock.com

Many people would say absolutely not. But a recent study
published in Harvard Business Review suggests that gender

convenience to actually buy those products. Sometimes,
however, green marketing can be quite consistent with
profitability. The Toyota Prius hybrid car offers an interesting
example. The Prius costs several thousand dollars more than
a standard car, but as gas prices skyrocketed through the
summer of 2008, consumers flooded the dealerships, snapping up Prius hybrids faster than Toyota could ship them.
Yet, when the economy dropped in late 2008, Toyota sales
plummeted along with the rest of the industry, suggesting
that the environment may be a fair-weather priority for consumers. But by 2012, Prius sales again were soaring, especially with the introduction of the plug-in hybrid version.26

4-5

E THICS AND SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY IN THE
GLOBAL ARENA: A HOUSE
OF MIRRORS?

Globalization has made ethics and social responsibility even
more complicated for workers at every level. Bribery and
corruption are among the most challenging issues faced by
companies and individuals that are involved in international
business. Transparency International, a leading anticorruption organization, published its yearly index of “perceived
corruption” across 168 countries in 2015. No country scored
a completely clean 100 out of 100, and the United States
scored a troubling 76, which was quite a bit higher than
India at 38 and China at 37, but lower than most of the

could make a real difference to profitability. A new global
study of nearly 22,000 firms found that in 2014, almost 60%
of these firms had no female board members. Just over half
had no female C-suite executives, and fewer than 5% had
a female CEO—although there was considerable variation
among countries and industries. The study also showed that
these numbers matter to the bottom line. Going from having no
women in corporate leadership to a 30% share of women is
associated with a 1% increase in net margin, which translates
to a 15% increase in profitability for a typical firm—wow!
This performance improvement seems to come from two key
factors: (1) increased skill diversity within top management and
(2) less gender discrimination throughout the management
ranks, which helps the company recruit, promote, and retain
talent. The key question is how to best achieve the goal of more
talented women in executive leadership.25

European countries that dominated the top of the list. Not
surprisingly, the world’s poorest countries fall largely in the
bottom half of the index, with African and Central Asian
countries clustered at the very bottom, suggesting that
rampant corruption is part of their business culture.27
Corruption wouldn’t be possible if companies
didn’t offer bribes, so Transparency International also
researched the likelihood of firms from industrialized
countries to pay bribes abroad. The 2011 results indicated that firms from export powers Russia, China,
and Mexico rank among the worst, with India following close behind. U.S. corporations, forbidden to offer
bribes since 1977 under the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act, showed a disturbing inclination to flout the law. In
fact, in 2012, Avon Corporation was accused of bribing
Chinese officials to gain a permit to engage in direct
sales; Walmart was accused of bribing Mexican officials to speed development of their stores in Mexico;
and Ralph Lauren Corporation was accused of bribing
Argentine customs officials to allow merchandise into
that country. Other U.S. corporations that have recently
found themselves in the crosshairs of government bribery investigations include Johnson & Johnson, HewlettPackard, and Disney. Overall, the United States scored
8.1 out of a possible 10, falling well below many Western European countries.28
These statistics raise some thought-provoking
­questions:
■■ When does a gift become a bribe? The law is unclear,

and perceptions differ from country to country.

CHAPTER 4: Business Ethics and Social Responsibility: Doing Well by Doing Good
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

71

Choosing between a Loaf of Bread
and a Packet of Shampoo
have experienced marketing success as well. In Dharavi, for
instance—one of the largest urban slums in India—more than
85% of households own a television.

Three-quarters of the world’s population—nearly 4 billion
people—earn less than $2 per day. But C. K. Prahalad, a wellrespected consultant and economist, claims that if the “aspirational poor” had a chance to consume, they could add about
$13 trillion in annual sales to the global economy. Unilever,
a global marketing company headquartered in Europe, has
aggressively pursued this market with consumer products.
Their customers might not have electricity, running water, or
even enough for dinner, but many of them do have packets
of Sunsilk shampoo and Omo detergent. Unilever’s success
stems from local knowledge gained over decades of operating
in developing markets—Unilever has been in Indonesia
since 1933 and India since 1888. Electronics companies

iStock.com/Sheriar Irani

Critics suggest that the corporate push to reach impoverished
consumers will enrich multinationals at the expense of their
customers, representing exploitation of the world’s poorest
people. Ashvin Dayal, East Asia director for the antipoverty
group Oxfam UK, expressed concern to Time magazine that
corporate marketing might unseat locally produced products
or encourage overspending by those who truly can’t afford
it. Citing heavily marketed candy and soda, he points out
that “companies have the power to create needs rather than
respond to needs.”

■■ How

But Prahalad counters that many people at the bottom of the
economic pyramid accept that some of the basics—running
water, for instance—are not likely to ever come their way.
Instead, they opt to improve their quality of life through affordable “luxuries,” such as single-use sachets of fragrant shampoo.
He argues, “It’s absolutely possible to do very well while doing
good.” Furthermore, he suggests that corporate marketing may
kick-start the poorest economies, triggering entrepreneurial
activity and economic growth. Since globalization shows no
signs of slowing, let’s hope that he’s right.29
What do you think? Is targeting the poor with consumer goods
exploitation or simply smart marketing?

can corporations monitor corruption and
enforce corporate policies in their foreign
branches?

■■ What are other ways to gain a

competitive edge in ­countries
where bribes are both accepted and expected?
Other challenging issues revolve around business responsibility to workers abroad. At
minimum, businesses should pay
a living wage for reasonable hours
in a safe working environment.
But exactly what this means is less
clear-cut. Does a living wage mean
enough to support an individual

72

or a family? Does “support” mean enough to subsist day
to day or enough to live in modest comfort? Should
American businesses ban child labor in countries where
families depend on their children’s wages to survive?
Companies must address these
questions individually, bringing
In 2014, the Chinese
together their own values with
the laws of both the United States
government declared
and their host countries.
a “war on pollution” in
The most socially responsible
response to devastating
companies establish codes of conlevels of air pollution,
duct for their vendors, setting clear
policies for human rights, wages,
water pollution, and
safety, and environmental impact.
rapid water depletion.
In 1991, Levi Strauss became the
first global company to establish
—CHINA OUTLOOK
a comprehensive code of conduct

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

for its contractors. Over the years, creative thinking has
helped it maintain its high standards, even in the face of
cultural clashes. An example from Bangladesh, outlined
in the Harvard Business Review, illustrates its preference
for win–win solutions. In the early 1990s, Levi Strauss
“discovered that two of its suppliers in Bangladesh were
employing children under the age of 14—a practice that
violated the company’s principles but was tolerated in
Bangladesh. Forcing the suppliers to fire the children
would not have ensured that the children received an
education, and it would have caused serious hardship
for the families depending on the children’s wages. In
a creative arrangement, the suppliers agreed to pay the
children’s regular wages while they attended school and
to offer each child a job at age 14. Levi Strauss, in turn,
agreed to pay the children’s tuition and provide books
and uniforms.” This creative solution allowed the suppliers to maintain their valuable contracts from Levi Strauss,
while Levi Strauss upheld its values and improved the
quality of life for its most vulnerable workers.30
Clearly, codes of conduct work best with monitoring, enforcement, and a commitment to finding solutions that work for all parties involved. Gap Inc. offers an
encouraging example. In 1996, Gap published a rigorous
Code of Vendor Conduct and required compliance from
all of its vendors. Its vendor-compliance officers strive
to visit each of its 3,000 factories at least once a year.

The company has uncovered a troubling number of violations, proactively pulling contracts from serious violators and rejecting bids from suppliers who don’t meet
its standards.
Gap and Levi Strauss seem to be doing their part, but
the world clearly needs universal standards and universal
enforcement to ensure that the benefits of globalization
don’t come at the expense of the world’s most vulnerable
people.31

TZIDO SUN/Shutterstock.com

4-6

Investors count on companies to spend
money wisely and fully disclose all key facts.

-M ONITORING

ETHICS AND
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY:
WHO IS MINDING THE STORE?

Actually, many firms are monitoring themselves. The
process is called a social audit, which is a systematic evaluation of how well a firm is meeting its ethics
and social responsibility objectives. Establishing goals
is the starting point for a social audit, but the next
step is to determine how to measure the achievement
of those goals, and measurement can be a bit tricky.
As You Sow, an organization dedicated to promoting
corporate social responsibility, recommends that companies measure their success by evaluating a “double
bottom line,” one that accounts for traditional financial
indicators, such as earnings, and one that accounts
for social-responsibility indicators, such as community
involvement.
Other groups are watching as well, which helps keep
businesses on a positive track. Activist customers, investors, unions, environmentalists, and community groups
all play a role. In addition, the threat of government legislation keeps some industries motivated to self-regulate.
One example is the entertainment industry, which uses a
self-imposed rating system for both movies and TV, largely
to fend off regulation. Many
people argue that the
social audit A systematic
emergence of salads at fastevaluation of how well a firm
food restaurants represents
is meeting its ethics and social
an effort to avoid regulation
responsibility goals.
as well.

CHAPTER 4: Business Ethics and Social Responsibility: Doing Well by Doing Good
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

73

THE BIG PICTURE
Clearly, the primary goal of any business is to
earn long-term profits for its investors. But
profits alone are not enough. As active participants in society,
firms must also promote ethical actions and social responsibility throughout their organizations and their corresponding
customer and supplier networks. Although every area matters, a
few warrant special mention:

approach to managing the workforce—especially during
cutbacks.
■■

■■

In tough economic times, effective business leaders focus
more than ever on integrity, transparency, and a humane

■■

Building or maintaining a presence in foreign markets
requires particularly careful attention to human rights and
local issues.
Sustainable development and other environmentally sound
practices are not only fiscally prudent and customer-friendly
but also crucial for the health of our planet.

CAREERS IN BUSINESS ETHICS AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y
Ethics Officer
Work with senior management to provide leadership,
advice, and guidance in all matters pertaining to ethics,
including training, enforcement, financial disclosure, and
gift rules. Ensure that the company’s code of ethics remains
in strict compliance with all relevant laws. Model the highest

STUDY TOOLS

standards of honesty and personal ethics at all times to foster
an ethical climate in the organization. Arrange and facilitate
employee ethics training. Work with HR to examine ethics
complaints and to ensure that all investigations of employee
misconduct are handled fairly and promptly. Assist in the
resolution of ethical dilemmas wherever needed throughout
the organization.

4

LOCATED AT BACK OF THE TEXTBOOK
■■

Rip-Out Chapter Review Card

■■

Gain unique perspectives on key concepts with new concept
videos in the e-book
Increase your comprehension with online homework and
quizzes

■■

74

■■

Study with existing flashcards and make your own

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

5

Business Communication:

Creating and Delivering Messages
That Matter

LEARNING OBJECTIVES
5-1 Explain the importance of excellent business communication

Remember to visit

5-2 Describe the key elements of nonverbal communication
5-3 Compare, contrast, and choose effective communication channels
5-4 Choose the right words for effective communication
5-5 Write more effective business memos, letters, and emails

PAGE 91
for additional

STUDY TOOLS

5-6 Create and deliver successful verbal presentations

5-1

EXCELLENT COMMUNICATION SKILLS: YOUR INVISIBLE ADVANTAGE

Much of your success in business will depend on your ability to
influence the people around you. Can you land the right job? Close the
deal that makes the difference? Convince the boss to adopt your idea?
Motivate people to buy your products? Excellent communicators are
not only influential but also well liked, efficient, and effective. Great
communication skills can dramatically boost your chance for success,
while poor communication skills can bury even the most talented people.
So what exactly are “excellent communication skills”?
Many students believe that great business communication equates to a knack for speaking or a flair for writing.
But if that’s where you stop, you’re likely to hit a brick wall
again and again as you attempt to achieve your goals. Effective communication
communication The
happens only when you
transmission of information
transmit meaning—relevant
between a sender and a recipient.
­meaning—to your audience.

76

Communication must be dynamic, fluid, and twoway, which includes listening. Seeking and understanding feedback from your audience—and responding
appropriately—form the core of successful business
­
communication. And it isn’t as easy as you may think.
American novelist Russell Hoban neatly summarized the
issue: “When you come right down to it, how many people speak the same language even when they speak the
same language?”

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Rawpixel.com Shutterstock.com

After studying this chapter, you will be able to:

5-1a  Communication Barriers: “That’s Not

What I Meant!”

Why is effective communication so challenging? The key
issue is noise, which is any interference that causes the
message you send to be different from the message your
audience understands. Some experts define noise in terms
of communication barriers, which arise in a number of
different forms. As you read the definitions, keep in mind that
with a bit of extra effort, most are surmountable, and we’ll
discuss strategies and tips as we move through the chapter.
■■

■■

■■

Physical Barriers: These can range from a document
that looks like a wall of type to a room that’s freezing
cold, to chairs in your office that force your visitors to
sit at a lower level than you.
Language Barriers: Clearly, if you don’t speak the
language, you’ll have trouble communicating. But even
among people who do share the same language, slang,
jargon, and regional accents can interfere with meaning.
Body Language Barriers: Even if your words are
inviting, the wrong body language can alienate and
distract your audience so completely that they simply
won’t absorb the content of your message.

“ITf he
a leader
chief business
can’t get of
a message
the
across
American
clearly,
people
andismotivate
business”
others to act on it, then
C A L Vhaving
I N C O O L I D GaE
A
M
E
R
I
C
A
N
PRESIDENT
message doesn’t even matter.”
—GILBERT AMELIO, CEO, JAZZ
S E M I C O N D U C T O R C O R P.

■■

Perceptual Barriers: How your audience perceives
you and your agenda can create a significant obstacle
to effective communication. If possible, explore their
perceptions—both positive and negative—in advance!

■■

Organizational Barriers:
Some companies have
built-in barriers to effective communication,
such as an unspoken
rule that the people at
the top of the organization don’t talk to the
people at the bottom.
These barriers are important to understand
but hard to change.

noise Any interference that causes
the message you send to be different
from the message your audience
understands.

communication barriers
Obstacles to effective
communication, typically defined in
terms of physical, language, body
language, cultural, perceptual, and
organizational barriers.

CHAPTER 5: Business Communication: Creating and Delivering Messages That Matter
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

77

Where In the World?
According to former Secretary General of the United Nations
Dag Hammarskjold, the unspoken dialogue between two people
can never be put right by anything they say. To avoid making
devastating gaffes when engaging in international business,
consider researching other cultures where you hope to do
business. And don’t just read books and articles—seek out and
interact with people who are part of the target culture. Some
examples of intercultural communication differences that you
may encounter:
▪▪ Time: Arriving late is shockingly rude from a Swedish
perspective, while tardiness is almost expected in many
Central American countries. Don’t be caught by surprise!

opposite—it’s equivalent to flipping the bird in the United
States.
▪▪ Directness: U.S. culture deeply values directness, which can
lead people from other countries to view Americans as abrupt
and crass. When doing business in countries such as Lebanon
and India, an indirect approach can be much more effective.
▪▪ Business practices: From giving gifts to exchanging business
cards, business practices vary widely from culture to culture.
As in each of the other cultural arenas, advanced preparation
definitely pays off!

graphbottles/Shutterstock.com

▪▪ Greetings: In Saudi Arabia, male acquaintances kiss on the
cheek, and some even walk through the streets holding
hands. In Germany and China, on the other hand, most
businesspeople actively avoid unnecessary touching.
▪▪ Gestures: When Japanese colleagues nod their heads and
say, “hai,” it doesn’t necessarily mean that they agree
with you, but rather that they hear you—big difference!
When people in some parts of the Middle East give you
the thumbs-up, it doesn’t mean “good job.” Quite the

■■

Cultural Barriers: These can include everything from
how you greet colleagues and establish eye contact
to how you handle disagreement, eat business meals,
and make small talk at meetings. As globalization gains
speed, intercultural communication will become
increasingly pivotal to long-term business success.
Identifying and understanding communication barriers
is a vital first step toward dismantling them in order to
communicate more effectively with any audience.

5-2

NONVERBAL COMMUNICATION:
BEYOND THE WORDS

intercultural
communication
Communication among people with
differing cultural backgrounds.

nonverbal communication
Communication that does not use
words. Common forms of nonverbal
communication include gestures,
posture, facial expressions, tone of
voice, and eye contact.

78

Most of us focus on what
we want to say, but how
we say it matters even
more. In fact, studies cited
in The Wall Street Journal’s
Career Journal suggest
that during face-to-face
communication, only 7%
of meaning comes from
the verbal content of the
message—38%
comes

from tone of voice, and 55% comes from body language
such as facial expressions, gestures, and posture.1
The goal of nonverbal communication should
be to reinforce the meaning of your message. Random
facial expressions and d
­isconnected body language—
arbitrary arm thrusts, for example—are at best distracting,
and at worst clownish. But strong, deliberate nonverbal
communication can dramatically magnify the impact of
your messages. Here are a few examples of how this can
work (but keep in mind that these examples do not necessarily translate from culture to culture):
■■

Eye Contact: Within American culture, sustained eye
contact (different from a constant cold stare) indicates
integrity, trust, and respectful attention, whether you’re
communicating with a subordinate, a superior, or a peer.

■■

Tone of Voice: Variation is the key to effectiveness,
since paying attention to a monotone takes more
concentration than most people are willing to muster.
Also, even when you’re angry or frustrated, try to keep
your voice in a lower pitch to encourage listeners to
stay with your message.

■■

Facial Expressions: People vary widely in terms
of how much emotion they show on their faces, but
virtually everyone communicates, whether or not they

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

If You See It in the News, It’s Got to Be True . . . Psych!!!
Satirical news shows have long had a prominent seat in the
spectrum of American entertainment. However, fake news rose
to new prominence toward the end of the 2016 election cycle
as each side accused the other of planting fake news stories to
sway the election. Fake news catapulted to a whole new level of
prominence when President Trump began labeling legitimate
news organizations—such as The New York Times and CNN—as
“fake news.”
Outside of politics, more and more businesses depend on
world events, filtered through the news, to guide their decision
making. Millions of dollars hang in the balance, so the credibility of the news is crucial. But since mock news programs and
websites enjoy more popularity than ever, business decision
makers must make sure that they are in on the joke instead of
the butt of the joke, which can’t be as easy as it sounds, given
the number of times legitimate news outlets and high-profile
individuals have mistaken stories on The Onion website, a
blatantly farcical mock news site, as real news. Some examples:
▪▪ China’s People’s Daily Online exuberantly reported that North
Korea’s short, pudgy leader, Kim Jong-un, was the “Sexiest
Man Alive” based on a fake story in The Onion.

know it, through a wide range of expressions that
include shy smiles, focused frowns, clenched jaws,
squinted eyes, and furrowed brows.
■■

Gestures and Posture: How you handle your body
speaks for you. For example, leaning forward can indicate interest, shrugging can suggest a lack of authority,
and fidgeting can imply either impatience or nervousness. To increase the power of your message, both
your gestures and your posture should be confident,
open, and coherent.

When disgraced cyclist Lance Armstrong confessed to
doping in a 2013 interview with Oprah Winfrey, body language expert Tonya Reiman noticed that despite the confidence of his words, he betrayed anxiety nonverbally by not
meeting Ms. Winfrey’s eyes, biting his lip, and repeatedly
touching his face. She also pointed out that he “‘fig-leafed,’ or
nervously covered his groin with his hands, several different
times…That’s a sign of somebody who’s under pressure.”3
Reiman has also pointed out that when people swallow hard
after making strong assertions, they are clearly lying. As silly as
it sounds, one of the easiest, most effective ways to improve
your body language is to practice nonverbal communication
in front of the mirror. Check out your gestures, notice your
facial expressions, and focus on eye contact. If you have the

▪▪ During the government shutdown of 2013, a Fox News
co-host falsely stated that President Obama offered to pay
out of his own pocket for the museum of Muslim culture, a
claim that originated from another satire website called the
National Report.
▪▪ On April Fool’s Day 2016, Yahoo’s news service published an
article reporting that Trader Joe’s would close its more than
450 grocery stores in 2017. Furious Trader Joe’s fans took to
Twitter in a firestorm of fury and outrage—even though the
end of the article clarified that it was just a joke.
The lesson here is NOT that you shouldn’t
believe everything you
read, but rather that
if something seems
too silly to be true,
it may not be, and
it certainly merits
further investigation.
Otherwise, it may be
the jokers who get the
last laugh!2

li n
Sk y

es/

Sh

ut

st
ter

ock

.co

m

time and ability, it’s also helpful (though humbling!) to videotape yourself delivering both a formal and informal message,
and ask a trusted friend to dissect the results with you.
Accurately discerning the body language of others is
another powerful business communication tool. But keep
in mind that you must evaluate others in the context of
common sense. When your boss keeps yawning, she may
be bored, or she may just be tired. When your colleague
crosses his arms, he may be indicating defensiveness, or he
might just normally stand that way.
5-2a  Active Listening: The Great Divider
How we listen (or don’t listen) also sends a high-impact,
nonverbal message. In fact, an old Chinese proverb asserts
that to listen well is as powerful a means of influence as to
talk well. Those who do both are unstoppable.
Strong listening skills—active listening—play an obvious role in business success. The higher you go in an organization, the more you find that
people are listening. Hourly
active listening Attentive
employees may spend 30%
of their time listening, while
managers often spend 60%,
and executives might spend

listening that occurs when the
listener focuses his or her complete
attention on the speaker.

CHAPTER 5: Business Communication: Creating and Delivering Messages That Matter
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

79

EXHIBIT 5.1 T IPS FOR BETTER LISTENING
Listening Dos

Listening Don’ts

Use your extra mental capacity to summarize (to yourself!) what the speaker Don’t even glance at your emails or text messages. You won’t fool anyone
is saying. Ask yourself: Why does this ­matter? What’s the key point?
with those surreptitious peeks.
Take a few notes. It will not only help you concentrate but will also communicate to the speaker that his or her thoughts really matter.

Don’t begin speaking the moment the person stops talking. Take a brief
pause to indicate that you’re absorbing the message.

Listen with both your ears and your eyes. Notice any inconsistency
between the speaker’s words and body language.

Don’t get overly comfortable. If your body is too relaxed, your mind may
wander more easily.

Use nonverbal communication—nods, smiles, leaning forward—to
indicate interest in the speaker.

Don’t pick up your phone—or even look at your phone—when you’re
listening. And whenever it’s practical, set your cell phone to vibrate when
others are speaking.

Use verbal feedback and questions to indicate under­standing and empathy: “So you’re saying that…,” or “Why do you think that?”

Don’t interrupt or finish other people’s sentences. There are few better ways
to cut off future communication.

75% or more. Interestingly, top salespeople also tend to
spend about 75% of their communication time listening.4
According to the International Listening Association
website, 85% of our learning is derived from listening, yet
listeners are distracted, forgetful, and preoccupied 75% of
the time. If listening is so crucial, why do most of us have
such a hard time engaging completely? One reason may
be that people listen at about 125 to 250 words per minute,
but think at about 1,000 to 3,000 words per minute—that’s
a significant gap. Common ways to fill the void include
daydreaming, thinking about the past (e.g., last night), and
planning for the future (e.g., later in the day).5
When you listen, try to use the extra thinking time to
make yourself pay closer attention to the speaker. You’ll
find that people tend to tell more to those who listen better, so if you polish your listening skills, you’re also likely to
buff up the quality of what you know and when you know
it. Exhibit 5.1 highlights some listening dos and don’ts
(specific to American culture).6

5-3

CHOOSE THE RIGHT CHANNEL:
A RICH ARRAY OF OPTIONS

Figuring out the right way to send a message can be
a daunting challenge, especially in light of the growing number of choices. The various options are called
c­ ommunication channels. Understanding the impact
of each channel will help
you make the best decision
communication channels
regarding which to use.
The various ways in which a
Communication chanmessage can be sent, ranging from
nels
differ from one anone-on-one in-person meetings to
other
in terms of how much
Internet message boards.
information—orrichness—they

80

communicate to the recipient. Exhibit 5.2 provides abrief
overview of key channels. Other channels might include
intranet postings, WebEx, Facebook, and instant messaging.
Where would these additional channels fall on the spectrum? Why?
5-3a  Consider the Audience:

It’s Not about You!

Clearly, the needs and expectations of your audience
play a crucial role in your choice of communication channel. Even if the recipient’s preferences seem absurd—for
example, we probably all know someone who refuses
to check email or voice mail—remember that your first
­priority is to communicate your message. If you send it
through a channel that the audience doesn’t expect, understand, or like, you’ve crippled your chance for successful
communication.
Analysis and consideration of your audience should
also be a top priority after you choose your communication channel. Meeting the needs of your audience
will give you a crucial edge in developing a message
that works.

5-4

PICK THE RIGHT WORDS: IS
THAT CAR PRE-LOVED OR JUST
PLAIN USED?!

Mark Twain once said, “The difference between the right
word and almost the right word is the difference between lightning and the lightning bug.” Perhaps that’s a
little extreme, but it may not be too far from the truth. In
the business world, where your messages are competing with so many others for the all-too-limited attention

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

EXHIBIT 5.2 C OMMUNICATION CHANNELS
Communication
Channel
Texting

Memos/Reports

Email
Voice Mail

Telephone
­Conversation

Channel Richness

When Should You Use This Channel?

Very low: Because so many of us text with
as few words as possible, your audience
will pick up only the basics.

When your content is uncontroversial

Very low: Your audience won’t gain any
information from your tone or your body
language.

When your content is uncontroversial

Very low: Here, too, your audience learns
nothing beyond your words themselves.

When your content is uncontroversial

Low: Your audience has the benefit of
hearing your tone but not seeing your
body language.

When your content is uncontroversial

When you want a quick response regarding relatively simple issues
When you know that your audience won’t be annoyed by it

When you must reach a number of people with the same message
When you must communicate lengthy or detailed information

When you must reach a number of people with the same ­message

When you don’t need a record of your message (but don’t f­ orget that the
recipient can easily save or forward your voice mail)

Moderate: Your audience ­benefits from
hearing your tone and how it changes
through the call.

When you need to either deliver your message or get a response quickly

High: Especially with state-of-the-art
equipment, the channel conveys much of
the richness of actually being there.

When you need to reach multiple people with complex or high-priority content

In-Person
­Presentation

High: Your audience directly experiences
every element of your communication,
from verbal content to tone, to body
language.

When you need to reach a large audience with an important message

Face-to-Face
Meeting

Very high: Your audience ­experiences your
full message even more directly.

When your message is personal, emotional, complex, or high priority (but if
the recipient might be volatile, consider using a less immediate channel)

Videoconferencing

When your content is more personal or controversial
When you need or want a spontaneous, dynamic dialogue with the
recipient

When you need or want a spontaneous, dynamic dialogue with
an audience that you cannot reach in person

When you need or want to experience the immediate response of your
audience

When you need or want instant feedback from your audience

of the recipient, the right words can encourage your
audience to stay with you long enough to absorb your
message.
5-4a  Analyze Your Audience
To find the right words, begin with the needs of your audience. Consider:
■■

Expectations: What kind of language do most
people use in the organization? Is it formal or informal?
Is it direct or roundabout? Should you differ from the
norm? Why or why not?

■■

Education: The education level of the audience
should drive the level of vocabulary and the complexity of the message.

■■

Profession: Some professions (e.g., website development) are rife with jargon and acronyms. How should
this influence your message?

5-4b  Be Concise
Comedian Jerry Seinfeld once said, “I will spend an hour
editing an eight-word sentence into five.” While Jerry
might be going a bit too far, it pays to be clear and concise
in business communication. But don’t be concise at the expense of completeness; include all information that your
audience may need. (It’ll save you time down the road.)
5-4c  Avoid Slang
Unless you’re absolutely certain that your audience will
understand and appreciate it, do not use slang in either
written or verbal communication. The risk of unintentionally
alienating yourself from your audience is simply too high.
5-4d  Avoid Bias
Intentionally or unintentionally, words can communicate
biases that can interfere with your message, alienate your

CHAPTER 5: Business Communication: Creating and Delivering Messages That Matter
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

81

O O P S! W H AT W E R E T H E Y T H I N K I N G ?
Ooops! Flushthatjobdownthetoilet
Common sense dictates that your work friends should
not be your Facebook friends, especially if your private
life is not suitable for your work realm (and in most cases—even
if it isn’t as racy as you might prefer—it simply isn’t appropriate), but you might be surprised to learn that Twitter grew
more than 60% between 2012 and 2014. And unlike Facebook
posts, tweets are in the public arena, which means that workers
must know, understand, and carefully follow their companies’
social media policies or risk fairly certain consequences. Job
seekers should be particularly careful about what they post on
social media.
Forty-three percent of employers use social networking
sites to research job candidates, according to a recent CareerBuilders.com national survey, and 51% of them said they’ve
found content that caused them to not hire the candidate.
Here are some of the key reasons:

▪▪ Candidate posted a photo of a warrant for his arrest.
▪▪ Candidate posted an exercise video for grandmothers.
▪▪ Candidate had sued his wife for shooting him in the head.
▪▪ Candidate featured a pig as his closest friend.
▪▪ Candidate posted his dental exam results.
▪▪ Candidate bragged about driving drunk and not getting
caught on several occasions.
▪▪ Candidate was actively involved in a demonic cult.
▪▪ Candidate posted Sasquatch pictures he had taken.7
What do you think? Is it reasonable for employers to use social
media to screen applicants? Why or why not? Does it represent
a violation of privacy?

▪▪ Job candidate posted provocative or inappropriate photographs or information (46%).
▪▪ Job candidate posted information about him- or herself
drinking or using drugs (41%).

Denys Prykhodov/Shutterstock.com

▪▪ Job candidates bad-mouthed their previous company or
fellow employee (36%).
▪▪ Job candidate had poor communication skills (32%).
▪▪ Job candidate had discriminatory comments related to race,
gender, religion, and so on. (28%).
Potential employers also found some items that were just plain
strange:
▪▪ Candidate’s profile included links to an escort service.

audience, and call your own character into question. As a
result, you will be less effective in achieving the immediate
goals of your communication (and possibly any future communication as well). Three kinds of bias are ­common.

Gender Bias Gender bias consists of words that suggest
stereotypical attitudes toward a specific gender. Avoiding
bias becomes tricky when you simply don’t know the gender of your audience, which
often happens when you
bias A preconception about
apply for a job in writing.
members of a particular group.
The best solution, of course,
Common forms of bias include
is to find out the recipient’s
gender bias; age bias; and race,
name, but if you can’t do
ethnicity, or nationality bias.
that, do not address your

82

“Improvement in a firm’s
communication effectiveness
is associated with a nearly 16%
increase in its market value.”
— WA T S O N W YA T T, C O N S U L T I N G F I R M

message to “Dear Sir” or “Dear Madam”; rather, use the title
of the position (e.g., “Dear Hiring ­Manager”).
Another common challenge is to establish agreement
in your sentences without creating gender bias. Consider
the following example:

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

hxdbzxy/Shutterstock.com

The manager who loses his temper must
­apologize.
Technically, this sentence is correct, but
it implies that all managers are men. A simple
solution would be to convert to plural:
Managers who lose their temper must
­apologize.
This approach almost always works to
help you sidestep the gender bias issue. In
the rare case that it doesn’t, you can simply
use the “his or her” option:
The manager who loses his or her temper
must ­apologize.

Age Bias Age bias refers to words that
suggest stereotypical attitudes toward peoEffective business communication requires an
ple of specific ages. In American culture,
analysis of the audience.
older people tend to experience negative
age bias much more often than younger
people. This happens despite specific federal legislation outlawing employment discrimination
5-4e  Use the Active Voice Whenever
against people over 40 years old. The reason may be
Possible
that ­American culture associates youth with highly valued qualities such as creativity, speed, independence,
Active voice facilitates direct, powerful, concise comand individualism. This bias will become increasingly
munication. You have used the active voice when the
detrimental as the workforce ages. Here is an example
subject of your sentence is doing the action described by
of age bias:
the verb. You have used the passive voice when the
We need someone young and dynamic in this position!
subject of your sentence is not doing the action described
You could easily eliminate the negative bias by simby the verb.
ply deleting the word “young” or by replacing it with the
Here’s an example of a sentence that uses the active
word “energetic.” One clear benefit of eliminating bias in
voice:
this case would be a broader applicant pool that might
Our team did not hit our sales goal.
include an older person who is more dynamic than any of
Our team, the subject of the sentence, did the action
the younger ­applicants.
described by the verb (missing the sales goal). The same
sentence in the passive voice would read as follows:
Race, Ethnicity, and Nationality Bias Words
The sales goal was not reached.
can also suggest stereotypical attitudes toward speIn this version, the subject of the sentence is the sales
cific races, ethnicities, and nationalities. Leaving aside
goal, which clearly did not do the action. As you can see
prejudice—which is clearly wrong—the problems in
from these examples, anthis area are usually unintentional and stem from unother benefit of active voice
active voice Sentence construction
in which the subject performs the
articulated assumptions about a person’s attitudes,
is accountability, which
action expressed by the verb (e.g., The
opinions, and e­ xperiences. Your best plan for avoidcan create deeper trust
accountant did the taxes.). The active
ing bias is to forgo any references to race, ethnicity, or
between you and your
voice works better for the vast majority
nationality unless they are directly relevant and clearly
audience.
of business communication.
necessary. And, of course, never simply
passive voice Sentence
assume that one person embodies the
construction in which the subject
attitudes, opinions, and experiences
does not do the action expressed by
“What you do speaks
the verb; rather, the subject is acted
of a larger group. If you communicate
so loud that I cannot
upon (e.g., The taxes were done by
with each person as an individual, you
our accountant.). The passive voice
hear
what
you
say.”
will not only avoid bias but also detends to be less effective for business
velop deeper, more effective channels
— R A L P H WA L D O E M E R S O N
communication.
of communication.
CHAPTER 5: Business Communication: Creating and Delivering Messages That Matter
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

83

5-5

WRITE HIGH-IMPACT MESSAGES:
BREAKING THROUGH THE CLUTTER

For many businesspeople, checking email—or even regular
mail—is like approaching a fire hose for a sip of water. Goal
number one is to crank down the pressure to get what you
need without being knocked over by all the rest. To attain this
goal, many people simply press the delete button.
Your challenge as a writer is to make your message a
must-read, and the starting point should be the needs of
your audience. Consider how the audience will respond
to your message—think about how they will feel, not
what they will do—and use that information to guide
your writing. But keep in mind that it’s hard to know for
sure how the recipient will respond. For instance, each
of the responses in Exhibit 5.3 could be reasonable for
­different people.
How do you know how your audience will respond?
In most cases, you must simply guess based on as much
evidence as you can find. The value of making a thoughtful
guess is that the chances of achieving your goal will soar if
you happen to be correct.
The anticipated audience response should directly
affect how you structure your writing.
■■

If the recipient will feel positive or neutral about
your message, the memo or email should begin
with your bottom line. What is your request or

EXHIBIT 5.3 MESSAGES AND RESPONSES
Message

Channel Richness

Please note the new
computer password
procedures.

Positive: Great! We’ve really needed
this.
Neutral: Okay, no big deal.
Negative: Not another change. . . .

The company plans to reassign your project team
at the end of the year.

Positive: I can hardly wait to work
with new people!
Neutral: It’s all part of the job . . .
Negative: Not another change!

recommendation or conclusion? Why should the
audience care? After you’ve clarified those points,
follow up with your rationale and explanations (keeping in mind that less is usually more for time-starved
­businesspeople).
■■

If the recipient will feel negative about your message,
start the memo or email with a couple of lines that
present the rationale before you give the bottom line.
Follow up with alternatives if there are any, and be sure
to end on a positive note (rather than an apology). This
structure is less straightforward, but it’s a more effective way to communicate your message.

See Exhibit 5.4 for sample emails based on different
anticipated responses to messages in an Internet game
development firm.

Do you often find yourself left hanging after sending an email?
One helpful trick may be changing your sign-off. According to
a recent study on email written to request help or advice, fewer
than half received a response (47.5%). However, the response
rate increased a whopping 36% on average when email had
a “thankful closing” such as “thanks in advance,” “thanks,” or
“thank you.” Overall, email with a thankful closing garnered a
62% response rate. Other popular sign-offs were total duds in
comparison:
▪▪ Cheers: 54% response rate
▪▪ Regards: 54% response rate
▪▪ Best: 51% response rate
So always keep in mind: if you want your email to result in action, a
little thanks goes a long way.8

84

AFANASEV IVAN/Shutterstock.com

What’s the Trick to Getting More People to Respond
to Your Emails?

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Mind Your Digital Manners! Not as Easy
as You Might Think…
Technology today makes almost everything easier. We
can use navigation programs to find even the most obscure
address and never struggle with an uncooperative paper
map. We can use cheap or free video chat programs to
see the faces of friends and family around the world. We
can use health apps to monitor our own heart rate and
sleeping patterns.

▪▪ Don’t even glance at your phone or smartwatch when you’re
having a face-to-face conversation—it’s rude, and you’re not
fooling anyone.

But technology doesn’t make it easier to mind our manners as
we communicate with each other—or with our devices—in
the rapidly changing digital world. In fact, Kevin Sintumuang,
columnist for The Wall Street Journal, noted, “More devices will
have us talking (or yelling) into the air—crying out, as if to the
Almighty, ‘Please play the workout mix!’ ” Sintumuang points
out that it’s rude to text at a nice restaurant and to take selfies
at disaster sites. He also comments that while some people
are absolutely fluent in emojis, others swear that the cute
cartoon symbols are destroying “real” human language. British
researchers and other digital etiquette experts tried to help by
developing a list of golden etiquette rules for the digital age. A
sampling:

▪▪ Never end a relationship by text or social media.

▪▪ Don’t overshare on Facebook.
▪▪ Don’t look for hook-ups on LinkedIn or any other professional platform.

5-5a  Strike the Right Tone
Good business writing sounds natural—it flows like spoken
language and reads like a conversation on paper. To strike
the right tone for any given message, remember that you
can choose from a wide variety of conversational styles,
from formal to chatty. Imagine yourself speaking to the recipient of your message, and you’ll find that the right tone
emerges naturally. A few guidelines will also help:
■■

Use common words in most situations (e.g., use versus
utilize).

■■

Use the active voice (e.g., We made a mistake versus A
mistake was made).

■■

Use personal pronouns (I, you) ­whenever appropriate.

■■

Use contractions (I’ll, don’t, here’s) as often as you would
when speaking.

▪▪ Use your email client’s vacation responder so people won’t
be left hanging when you’re out of town.

▪▪ Don’t look through your partner’s phone.
So what are the right answers?
Well, until technology stops—
which we hope won’t be
anytime soon—and
the proper etiquette sorts
itself out, all
of us should
probably let
common
sense and
old-fashioned
consideration
be our guides.9

tend to jump off the page before the content of the message. But if you’re uncertain about a particular point, look at
how professionally edited publications handle similar issues.
Finally, don’t be afraid to do a commonsense check on any
grammatical question.
Edward P. Bailey, noted professor and business communication author, points out that many writers make grammar mistakes based on phantom knowledge—“mythical”
grammar rules that aren’t even in grammar handbooks. His
research firmly reassures us that:
■■

It is okay to end a sentence with a preposition when
doing so sounds natural and does not involve excess
words (e.g., Where is this book from? is much better
than From where is this book?).

■■

It is okay to begin sentences with “And” or “But” (e.g.,
Most teens enjoy video games with a moderate level of
violence. But a small, vocal minority strongly advocates a
more clean-cut approach.).

■■

It is okay to split infinitives (e.g., Try to effectively film
the next scene is a perfectly acceptable sentence, even
though “effectively” is inserted between “to” and “film.”).

5-5b  Don’t Make Grammar Goofs
Grammatical errors distract your reader from your writing
and undermine your credibility. Most businesspeople are
aware of the more common grammatical errors, so they

Rommel Canlas/Shutterstock.com

▪▪ Never text, email, or use social media while drunk, angry, or
emotional.

CHAPTER 5: Business Communication: Creating and Delivering Messages That Matter
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

85

Exhibit 5.4

Sample Emails: Same Message, Different Approach

If you follow these principles,
your writing not only will sound
more natural but also will flow
more easily. Winston Churchill, a
renowned writer and speaker, was
on-board with this commonsense
approach decades ago, as we can
see from his joking comment that
poked fun at tortured writing: “From
now on, ending a sentence with a
preposition is something up with
which I will not put.”10

“Technology of late
has been so fun, so
easily engrossing,
that it’s amplified
the jerkitude of the
average American.”

reader, the more likely that he or
she will absorb your message,
which is, of course, your ultimate
goal.

Headings: A heading is not a
title; rather, it is a label for one
of several parts. If you have
only one part, skip the heading, and use a title or a subject
—KEVIN SINTUMUANG, THE
line. Consider using informaWA L L S T R E E T J O U R N A L
tive headings (e.g., “Recruitment has stalled,” rather than
simply “Recruitment”) or question headings (e.g., “Have
5-5c  Use Block Paragraphs
we met our recruitment goals for this campaign?”).
And remember, headings are just as effective for letThere are three elements to block paragraphs: (1) use single
ters and emails as they are for memos, and they are
spacing, (2) double space between paragraphs, and (3) do
perfectly okay in one-page documents.
not indent the first sentence of your paragraphs. This approach has become standard for business writing over the
past decade, as writers have begun to include an increasing number of additional elements such as headings and
illustrations. The block paragraphs create a more organized
look for your page, guiding the reader’s eye through the
key elements of your structure.
5-5d  Use Headings and Bulleted Lists

Wherever Appropriate

Both headings and bulleted lists guide your reader more
easily through your ­writing. And the easier it is for your

86

■■

■■

Bulleted Lists: A bulleted list is an invaluable
tool that you can use to engage your reader’s
attention whenever you have more than one of

“The single biggest problem in
communication is the illusion
that it has taken place.”
— G E O R G E B E R N A R D S H AW

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

anything in your writing (e.g., next steps, similar
sections, questions). By formatting your lists with
bullets, you are directing your reader’s eye through
your ­writing.

5-6

CREATE AND DELIVER SUCCESSFUL
VERBAL PRESENTATIONS: HOOK
’EM AND REEL ’EM IN!

What do people fear most? The Book of Lists asserts that public
speaking ranks number one for the majority of people, high
above the fear of death at number four. So, when people
say they would rather die than give a speech, they may really mean it! This section is designed to mitigate any fear you
might have about public speaking by giving you guidance on
how to create and deliver a high-impact verbal presentation.
As with most communication, the needs of the audience are the best place to begin. How does your audience
feel about you and your topic? Are they interested? Hostile? Positive? What were they doing before your presentation? Dragging themselves out of bed after a late night
at a sales meeting? Eating lunch? Use this information to
guide how you develop your presentation. For instance, an
eager, educated audience might not need as much background as a more lethargic, less-interested audience.

5-6a  Opening
The opening of your presentation gives you a chance to
grab the attention of the audience. If your opening hooks
them, you’ve boosted the likelihood that you will hold
their attention throughout the presentation. But developing that hook can be a challenge. The following are some
suggestions for effective hooks:
■■

An Interesting or Startling Statistic: In a presentation from a nonprofit foodbank seeking to partner
with a grocery chain, you could open by sharing that
“the U.S. has the largest number of homeless women
and children of any industrialized nation, and 57% of
homeless kids spend at least one day a month completely without food. How could we improve these
devastating numbers?”

■■

Audience Involvement: Pulling the audience into
your opening can be very effective. For instance, in a
presentation for a clothing company: “Imagine yourself
with me at 11 p.m. on a Friday night, standing in line for
admission to the hottest club in New York. As we inch
forward, we suddenly realize that three other women
in line are wearing the exact same dress as you. . . .”

■■

A Compelling Story or Anecdote: This approach
works best when it’s completely genuine, using specific
details that are directly relevant to the audience. For

EXHIBIT 5.5 T EN TIPS FOR EXCELLENT EMAIL
1. Consider both your primary and secondary readers. In other words, never forget that your reader may forward your email without considering the
potential impact on you.
2. Keep it short! Many readers won’t scroll down past whatever shows on their screen, so be sure to get your b­ ottom line close to the top of your message.
3. Don’t forget to proofread. This is especially important if you’re asking someone to do something for you. And remember that your spell-checker won’t
catch every mistake.
4. Use standard writing. Smiley faces, abbreviations, and five exclamation points are all fine if you’re emailing your buddies, but in more formal messages
they can make you look silly (or like you just don’t care).
5. Avoid attachments if possible. They take time and space to open, and they don’t always translate well to cell phones and PDAs. Instead, cut and paste
relevant sections of the attachment into your email.
6. Don’t assume privacy. Think of your emails as postcards that anyone (especially computer system administrators and managers) can read along the
way. In that light, try not to use email to communicate negative or critical messages.
7. Respond promptly to emails. If you don’t have time to respond to the email itself, consider sending a message such as “Sorry, but I’m swamped right
now—will get back to you early next week.”
8. Assume the best. Because emails are often brief, they can cause unintentional offense. If you receive an off-key message, don’t be afraid to inquire: “I’m
not sure what you mean . . . could you please explain?”
9. Create a compelling subject line. Make your reader want to open your message. Briefly communicate the topic of your message and why your reader
should care.
10. Think before you write, and think again before you send! Too many people send messages in an emotional m
­ oment that they later regret. Take time to
think and think again.
CHAPTER 5: Business Communication: Creating and Delivering Messages That Matter
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

87

with visual reinforcement. Then as you move
to each new point, you can refer to the blueprint that you established upfront. A clear,
explicit structure will help the audience track
with you as you move through your ­material.
5-6c  Close

g-stockstudio/Shutterstock

Ideally, the close of your presentation will
summarize your key points. Then circle back
to your introduction, so that the beginning
and the end serve as “bookends” for the body
of your presentation. For instance, if you began by asking questions, end by answering
them. If you began with an anecdote, end by
referring to the same story. As an alternative
(or maybe an addition), consider sharing a
quotation or a bit of humor relevant to your
content.
Also, keep in mind that you should
Giving great presentations may be easier than you think.
verbally signal to your audience that you
are about to conclude. After you do so—
by saying, “In summary,” for instance—be
sure that you actually do conclude. Nothing alienates
instance, in a presentation about employee benefits,
an audience more quickly than launching into another
you might want to share the story of a colleague who
point after you’ve told them you’re finished! Your body
beat cancer using the company’s innovative healthcare
language will support your conclusion if you turn
program.
off your projectorand move toward the audience to
■■ A Relevant Simile or Metaphor: Patricia Fripp, an
answer questions. And even if you aren’t so eager to
award-winning keynote speaker, shares a simile that
field questions, try to paste a receptive look on your
worked well to open a presentation for a colleague:
face—it’ll increase your credibility and set a positive
“Being a scientist is like doing a jigsaw puzzle in a
tone for the Q&A session.
snowstorm at night . . .you don’t have all the pieces
. . .and you don’t have the picture to work from.”
■■

Engaging Questions: In a presentation about customer service, you could open by asking: “How many
of you have spent far too long waiting on hold for
­customer service that was finally delivered by a surly
agent who clearly knew nothing about your ­question?”

5-6b  Body
The most common presentation mistake is to include too
many key ideas in the body of your presentation. Audiences
simply cannot absorb more than two to four main points,
and three are ideal. Specific examples and vivid comparisons
will illustrate your points and bring them to life, while trusted
sources, specific data, and expert quotations will increase
your credibility and persuasiveness. Regardless of the length
of your presentation, be sure to use clear transitions as you
move from point to point.
Just before launching into the body of your presentation, you should tell the audience your key points, ideally

88

5-6d  Questions
At the start of your presentation, decide whether you want
to handle questions throughout your talk or save them for
the end. Tell your audience your preference upfront; most
of the time they will respect it. But if you do receive unwanted questions in the middle of your presentation, don’t
ignore them. Simply remind the questioner that you’ll
leave plenty of time for questions at the end.
Not surprisingly, the best tip for handling questions is
to be prepared. Since it’s tough to anticipate questions for
your own presentation, you may want to enlist the help
of a trusted colleague to brainstorm the possibilities. And
don’t just come up with the questions—prepare the answers, too!
5-6e  Visual Aids
Studies suggest that three days after a presentation,
people retain 10% of what they heard from an oral

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

■■

Showing Works Better Than Simply Telling: Use
pictures and other graphics whenever possible.

■■

Less Is More: Keep this helpful guideline in mind: no
more than seven words per line, no more than seven
lines per slide.

■■

Don’t Just Read Your Slides Aloud: Instead,
­paraphrase, add examples, and offer analysis and
­interpretation.

instance—you cannot access your work. Security might
be a worry, since web-based data may be vulnerable to
hackers. If Google disables your account for any reason,
your work is lost. And Google Presentations does not
yet include all the features available in PowerPoint, such
as chart-making tools and advanced slide animations.
The price, though, for both Google Presentations and
Prezi is pretty attractive: free! And that includes new
versions and updates.
From a long-term perspective, another key benefit
of Google Presentations—and all other cloud computing
applications—is environmental. Newsweek writer Brian
Braiker points out that “conducting affairs in the cloud
is not only convenient, it’s also greener: less capital and
fewer printouts means less waste.” All of which suggests
that the forecast for Google Presentations is far from
cloudy.12

■■

Go Easy on the Special Effects: Too many sounds
and too much animation can be painfully distracting.

5-6g  Handling Nerves

■■

Don’t Let Your Slides Upstage You: Look at your
audience, not at the slides. And dim the screen when
you’re not specifically using it.11

5-6f  Google Presentations
Although Microsoft PowerPoint remains the software
option of choice for business presentations, Google
­Presentations software is swiftly gaining ground. Google
Presentations is one of a growing number of applications
based in “the cloud.” Another popular option is Prezi,
which includes pan and zoom features that give presentations an engaging cinematic feel. Cloud-based
presentation software means that when you buy
a new computer, you don’t need to spend
hundreds of dollars buying PowerPoint. You
simply log into your Google account, for instance; use the Google Presentations software; and save your finished product
on Google’s servers. Since your work
is stored on the Internet, you can
access it from any device with a
web connection—you don’t need
to email it to yourself, or store it
on a temperamental local drive,
or worry about saving your
changes as you move from work
to home, to school.
But cloud-based software is
far from perfect. If you temporarily
lose your Internet connection—
while on a plane or a bus, for

Believe it or not, most experts agree that nervousness
can be useful before a presentation. A little adrenalin
can help you perform better, think faster, and focus more
completely. But we all know that out-of-control nerves
can interfere with effectiveness. Here are some ideas to
mitigate speech anxiety:
■	Send yourself positive messages; visualize success.

Examples: “I will be dynamic and engaging.” “They will
completely support my new product idea.”
■■

Take ten slow, deep breaths—use the yoga approach
of breathing in through your nose and out through
your mouth.
■■

T ake a sip of water to loosen your throat muscles
and mitigate a shaking voice. (Water also gives
you a way to fill pauses.)
■     Pick

a friendly face or two in the
audience, and imagine yourself
speaking only to those people
(but don’t fix them down with a
cold stare!).

■     Remind yourself that the audience

wants you to succeed. Focus on their
needs rather than your own nerves.
PathDoc/Shutterstock.com

presentation, 35% from a visual presentation, and 65%
from a combined visual and oral presentation. The numbers are compelling: visual aids matter. Depending on
your audience, effective, high-impact visual aids could
range from props to charts to mounted boards. But in
business communication, ­
PowerPoint slides are the
most common option. If you use PowerPoint, consider
these suggestions:

If possible, have a handful of oneon-one conversations with audience
members before your presentation.
This will almost certainly reinforce that
they want you to succeed, which will
likely take the edge off your nerves.

CHAPTER 5: Business Communication: Creating and Delivering Messages That Matter
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

89

5-6h  Handling Hostility

5-6j  A Spot on the Back Wall?

We’ve all seen hostile questioners who seem determined
to undermine presenters. It can be awful to watch, but it’s
surprisingly easy to handle. Here are a few tips:

Many people have heard the old myth that no one will
know the difference if you calm your nerves by looking at
a spot on the back wall rather than at the audience. Don’t
do it! While you may be more comfortable, your audience
will be mystified . . . more often than not, they’ll keep turning around to find out what’s so interesting back there!

■■

Stay calm and professional. Rightly or wrongly,
the hostile questioner has won the day if you get
defensive or nervous.

■■

Don’t be afraid to pause before you answer to gather
your thoughts and allow the hostility to diffuse. (A
sip of water can provide good cover for a thought-­
gathering moment.)

■■

Once you’ve answered the question, don’t reestablish eye contact with the questioner. Doing so
would suggest that you are seeking approval for
your response, which only invites further hostile
follow-up.

■■

If the questioner insists on follow-up, you may
need to agree to disagree. If so, be decisive:
“Sounds like we have two different points of view
on this complex issue.”

■■

Use body language to reinforce that you are done
interacting with the questioner. Take a couple of steps
away, and ask another part of the group whether they
have any questions.

5-6i  Incorporating Humor
Everyone likes to be funny, but incorporating humor in a
business presentation can be risky. Only do it if you’re very,
very sure that it’s funny. Even so, double-check that your
jokes are appropriate and relevant. You should never, ever
laugh at the expense of any member of your audience.
Even laughing at yourself is chancy, since you risk diminishing your credibility. (But
a joke at your own expense
dynamic delivery Vibrant,
is always effective if you
compelling presentation delivery
make a mistake; there’s no
style that grabs and holds the
better way to recover the
attention of the audience.
goodwill of your audience.)

90

5-6k  Delivery
Some people are naturals, but for the rest of us, dynamic
delivery is a learned skill. It begins and ends with preparation, but keep in mind that practice doesn’t always make
perfect—in fact, practice more often just makes permanent. So be sure that you practice with an eye toward
improvement. If possible, you should set up a practice
situation that’s close to the real thing. If you’ll be standing
to present, stand while you practice, since standing makes
many people feel more vulnerable. Consider practicing in
front of a mirror to work on eye contact and gestures. Also,
try recording your voice to work on a lively tone.
Finally, practice in front of a trusted friend or two who
can give you valuable feedback. See Exhibit 5.6 for Ten Tips
for Dynamic Delivery.

EXHIBIT 5.6 T EN TIPS FOR DYNAMIC DELIVERY
1. PRACTICE!
2. Know your material, but never memorize it word for word.
3. Look directly at members of your audience at least 50% of the time.
4. Vary your voice, your facial expressions, and your body language.
5. Use selective notes (but keep them i­nconspicuous).
6. Stick to your allotted time.
7. Slow down and listen to yourself.
8. Don’t apologize (unless you really did something wrong!).
9. Remember to use natural gestures.
10. PRACTICE!

PART ONE: The Business Environment
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

THE BIG PICTURE
Effective communication saves time and
money—boosting performance and
morale—across every area of business. But one vital principle
holds true regardless of the more specific nature of your
communication: the best way to achieve your goals is to focus
on your audience, not on yourself. If you understand the goals,
expectations, and needs of your audience, you can tailor your
communication to boost your chances (sometimes dramatically)
of accomplishing your objectives.

across the spectrum of business. To ensure that your communication continues to be effective, keep an open mind.
Pay attention to differences among cultures, to language
usage in professional publications, and to new communication technology. And don’t be afraid to consult an up-to-date
communication website or handbook every so often. When
other resources aren’t available, rely on courtesy, consideration, and common sense—valuable tools to guide your
communication in any situation.

As globalization and technological change continue to accelerate, new communication challenges will likely develop

C AREERS IN BUSINESS COMMUNIC ATION
Public Relations Manager
Plan and implement strategies to build and maintain a positive
image for the organization. Build strong relationships and
open channels of communication with relevant members
of the press. Write and distribute compelling press releases

STUDY TOOLS

about the organization via both traditional and digital media.
Respond to requests for information from the media. Work with
senior management to develop crisis management plans when
necessary. Work with marketing to create events and stunts that
build the company’s public image. Perform an effective liaison
role with an outside public relations agency when there is one.

5

LOCATED AT BACK OF THE TEXTBOOK
■■

Rip-Out Chapter Review Card

■■

Gain unique perspectives on key concepts with new concept
videos in the e-book
Increase your comprehension with online homework and
quizzes

■■

■■

Study with existing flashcards and make your own

CHAPTER 5: Business Communication: Creating and Delivering Messages That Matter
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

91

6

Business Formation:

Choosing the Form That Fits

LEARNING OBJECTIVES
6-1 Describe the characteristics of the four basic forms of business ownership
6-2 Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of a sole proprietorship
6-3 Evaluate the pros and cons of the partnership as a form of business ownership
6-4 Explain why corporations have become the dominant form of business ownership
6-5 Explain why limited liability companies are becoming an increasingly popular form of

Remember to visit

PAGE 111
for additional

STUDY TOOLS

business ownership
6-6 Evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of franchising

6-1

B USINESS OWNERSHIP OPTIONS: THE BIG FOUR

One of the most important decisions entrepreneurs make when
starting a new business is the form of ownership they’ll use. The
form they choose affects virtually every aspect of establishing and
operating their firm, including the initial cost of setting up the
business, the way the profits are distributed, the types of taxes
(if any) the business must pay, and the types of regulations it must
follow. Choice of ownership also determines the degree to which
each owner is personally liable for the firm’s debts and the sources
of funds available to the firm to finance future expansion. Finally,
choosing the right business form helps entrepreneurs battle the
steep odds against survival. Eighty percent of new businesses close
within five years, and even 37% of large, established, and highly
successful Fortune 500 and S&P 500 firms can be expected to fail
every five years.1
92

PART TWO: Creating a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Monkey Business Images/Shutterstock.com

After studying this chapter, you will be able to:

The vast majority of businesses in the United States are
owned and organized under one of the four forms:
1. A sole proprietorship is a business that is owned,
and usually managed, by a single individual. As far as the
law is concerned, a sole proprietorship is simply an extension of the owner. Company earnings are treated just
like the owner’s income; likewise, any debts the company
incurs are considered to be the owner’s personal debts.
2. A partnership is a voluntary agreement under
which two or more people act as co-owners of a
business for profit. As we’ll see later in the chapter,
there are several types of partnerships. In its most
basic form, known as a general partnership, each
partner has the right to participate in the company’s
management and share in profits—but also has unlimited liability for any debts the company incurs.
3. A corporation is a business entity created by
filing a form (known in most states as the articles
of incorporation) with the appropriate state
agency, paying the state’s incorporation fees, and
meeting other requirements. (The specifics vary
among states.) Unlike a sole proprietorship or a
partnership, a corporation is considered to be a

“The limited liability corporation
is the GREATEST single
discovery of modern times.”
— N I C H O L A S M U R R AY B U T L E R , P R E S I D E N T
O F C O L U M B I A U N I V E R S I T Y, 19 0 2 –19 4 5
legal entity that is
separate and distinct
from its owners. In
many ways, a corporation is like an artificial
person. It can legally
engage in ­virtually
any business activity
a natural person can
pursue. For example, a
corporation can enter
into binding contracts,
borrow money, own
property, pay taxes,
and initiate legal actions (such as lawsuits)
in its own name. It can
even be a partner in

sole proprietorship A
form of business ownership
with a single owner who usually
actively manages the company.
partnership A voluntary
agreement under which two or
more people act as co-owners of a
business for profit.
general partnership A
partnership in which all partners can
take an active role in managing the
business and have unlimited liability
for any claims against the firm.

corporation A form of
business ownership in which
the business is considered a
legal entity that is separate and
distinct from its owners.

CHAPTER 6: Business Formation: Choosing the Form That Fits
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

93

a partnership or an owner of another corporation.
Because of a corporation’s status as a separate legal
entity, the owners of a corporation have limited
liability—meaning they aren’t personally responsible for the debts and obligations of their company.
4. A limited liability company (LLC) is a hybrid
form of business ownership that is similar in some
respects to a corporation while having other characteristics that are similar to a partnership. Like a corporation, a LLC is considered a legal entity separate from
its owners. Also like a corporation—and as its name
implies—an LLC offers its owners limited liability for
the debts of their business. But it offers more flexibility
than a corporation in terms of tax treatment; in fact,
one of the most interesting characteristics of an LLC is
that its owners can elect to have their business taxed
either as a corporation or a partnership. Many states
even allow individuals to form single-person LLCs that
are taxed as if they were sole proprietorships.
Sole proprietorships, partnerships, and corporations have been around in some form since the
beginning of our nation’s history, but limited liability
companies are a relatively new form of ownership in
the United States. In 1977, Wyoming passed the first
state statute allowing LLCs, and Florida became the
second state to do so in 1982. But it wasn’t until a ruling by the IRS in 1988 clarifying the tax treatment of
LLCs that most other states followed suit. Today every
state has enacted LLC legislation, and the LLC has
become a very popular ownership option. In many
states, filings to form LLCs now outnumber filings to
form corporations.2
Exhibits 6.1 and 6.2 provide some interesting insights
about the relative importance of each form of ownership.
As shown in Exhibit 6.1, the
sole proprietorship is by far
articles of incorporation
the most common type of
The document filed with a state
business organization in
government to establish the
the United States. In 2016,
existence of a new corporation.
24.07 million individuals relimited liability When
ported operating nonfarm
owners are not personally liable
sole proprietorships. This
for claims against their firm.
represented nearly 72% of
Owners with limited liability
may lose their investment in the
the total number of busicompany, but their other personal
ness enterprises. As a group,
assets are protected.
these sole proprietorships
limited liability company
reported $1.3 trillion in rev(LLC) A form of business
enue and $305 billion in net
ownership that offers both limited
income (profit). But while
liability to its owners and flexible
these figures are imprestax treatment.
sive in the aggregate, most

94

Exhibit 6.1

Total Number of Businesses
by Form of Ownership
Corporations
5.84 million
17.42%
Partnerships
3.61 million
10.77%
Sole
Proprietorships
24.07 million
71.81%

Source: “Table 12: Number of Business Tax Returns, by Size of Business for Income Years, 1990-2014 [1]
Expanded,” Internal Revenue Service, https://www.irs.gov/uac/soi-tax-stats-historical-table-12, accessed
January 16, 2017.

individual sole proprietorships are quite small. According
to data released by the IRS in 2016, about 70% of all sole
proprietorships reported annual revenue of less than
$25,000, while less than 1% reported receipts in excess of
$1 million.3 So while sole proprietorships make up nearly
72% of all businesses, they only account for 3.64% of
total revenue and 10.32% of total profit. Still, 59% of sole
proprietorships break even or are profitable.4
As Exhibit 6.2 shows, when it comes to economic
impact, the corporate form of ownership rules. Though
corporations comprised only 17.42% of all business entities, in 2016 they reported 82.17% of all business revenues
and 63.35% of all business profits. Corporations such as
Apple (technology), JP Morgan Chase (banking) Berkshire
Hathaway (investing), Wells Fargo (banking), and Gilead
(pharmaceuticals) have annual sales revenues measured
in the billions (sometimes hundreds of billions) of dollars.5
But not all corporations are multibillion-dollar enterprises.
In fact, 24.1% of all corporations reported total revenues of
less than $25,000.6

“Corporation: an ingenious device
for obtaining profit without
individual responsibility.”
— A M B R O S E B I E R C E , 19 T H - C E N T U R Y
C O M P I L E R O F T H E D E V I L’ S D I C T I O N A R Y

PART TWO: Creating a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Exhibit 6.2

Total Revenue and Net Income by
Form of Ownership
Revenue
Sole
Proprietorships
$305 billion
10.32%

Partnerships
$778 billion
26.33%

Corporations
$1.87 trillion
63.35%

Net Income

Partnerships
$5.08 trillion
14.2%

Sole
Proprietorships
$1.3 trillion
3.64%

to one!7 Altogether, partnerships earned 14.2% of business revenues and 26.33% of business profits.
You’ve probably noticed that Exhibits 6.1 and 6.2 don’t
include specific information about limited liability companies. That’s because these exhibits are based on information
taken from annual tax returns submitted to the IRS. The IRS
doesn’t track LLC information separately. Instead, it classifies
each LLC based on the tax treatment the company selects.
LLCs that choose to be taxed as partnerships are classified as
partnerships, while those choosing to be taxed as corporations are classified as corporations. (The vast majority of LLCs
elect to be taxed as partnerships, so most LLC earnings are
reported in the partnership category.)
We’ll see that each form of ownership has distinct
advantages and disadvantages. As a company grows
and matures, the form of ownership that’s best suited
to its needs may change. Fortunately, the form of ownership for a business isn’t set in stone. For example, it is
possible—and in fact quite common—for business owners to convert from a sole proprietorship to a corporation,
or from a corporation to a LLC.

6-2

A DVANTAGES AND
DISADVANTAGES OF SOLE
PROPRIETORSHIPS

Our look at Exhibits 6.1 and 6.2 raises two questions about
sole proprietorships. First, why is this form of ownership so
popular? Second, why do sole proprietorships usually remain
relatively small? A look at the advantages and disadvantages
of sole proprietorships can help answer these questions.
Corporations
$2.94 trillion
82.17%

6-2a

Sole proprietorships offer some very attractive advantages to people starting a business:
■

Ease of Formation: Compared to the other forms
of ownership we’ll discuss, the paperwork and costs
involved in forming a sole proprietorship are minimal.
No special forms must be filed, and no special fees
must be paid. Entrepreneurs who are eager to get a
business up and running quickly can find this a compelling advantage.

■■

Retention of Control: As the only owner of a sole
proprietorship, you’re in control. You have the ability to
manage your business the way you want. If you want
to “be your own boss,” a sole proprietorship might look
very attractive. Nicholas Hollows, sole proprietor of
Hollows Leather in Eugene, Oregon, says, “I definitely
don’t intend to switch my role from a person who

Source: “Table 1. Number of Returns, Total Receipts, Business Receipts, Net Income (less deficit), Net
Income, and Deficit by Form of Business, Tax Years 1980-2012,” Internal Revenue Service, https://www
.irs.gov/pub/irs-soi/12otidb1.xls, accessed January 16, 2017.

As you can see from Exhibit 6.1, partnerships are
less common than sole proprietorships or corporations.
Still, more than 3.61 million businesses were classified as
partnerships in the United States. And partnerships tend
to be both larger and more profitable than sole proprietorships. As Exhibit 6.2 shows, in the aggregate, partnerships earned 2.55 times more total net income than sole
proprietorships, despite the fact that sole proprietorships
outnumbered partnerships by a ratio of almost seven

Advantages

CHAPTER 6: Business Formation: Choosing the Form That Fits
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

95

makes things to a person who manages people. Being
hands on is the whole reason I do this.”8
Pride of Ownership: One of the main reasons many
people prefer a sole proprietorship is the feeling of
pride and the personal satisfaction they gain from
owning and running their own business.

■■

Retention of Profits: If your business is successful, all
the profits go to you—minus your personal taxes, of
course.

■■

Possible Tax Advantage: No taxes are levied directly on
the earnings of sole proprietorships as a business. Instead,
the earnings are taxed only as income of the proprietor.
As we’ll see when we discuss corporations, this avoids the
undesirable possibility of double taxation of earnings.

6-2b

Disadvantages

Entrepreneurs thinking about forming sole proprietorships
should also be aware of some serious drawbacks:
■■

96

Limited Financial Resources: Raising money to finance growth can be tough for sole proprietors. With
only one owner responsible for a sole proprietorship’s
debts, banks and other financial institutions are often
reluctant to lend it money. Likewise, suppliers may
be unwilling to provide supplies on credit. This leaves
sole proprietors dependent on their own wealth plus
the money that their firms generate.

■■

Unlimited Liability: Because the law views a sole
proprietorship as an extension of its owner, the debts
of the firm become the owner’s personal debts. The
owner of Erie County Farms, a grocery store in Erie,
Pennsylvania, never incorporated his business, so the
store operated as a sole proprietorship. Accordingly,
when Erie County Farms went bankrupt, the bankruptcy court seized the owner’s home and personal assets
to pay $650,000 in unpaid bills.9 Likewise, if someone
sues your business and wins, the court can seize your
personal possessions—even those that have nothing
to do with your business—and sell them to pay the
damages. This unlimited personal liability means that
operating as a sole proprietorship is a risky endeavor.

■■

Limited Ability to Attract and Maintain Talented
Employees: Most sole ­proprietors are unable to pay
the high salaries and substantial perks that highly
qualified, experienced employees get when they work
for big, well-established companies.

■■

Heavy Workload and Responsibilities: Being your
own boss can be very rewarding, but it can also mean
very long hours and a lot of stress. Sole proprietors—
as the ultimate authority in their business—often must

■■

Lack of Permanence: Because sole proprietorships
are just extensions of their owners, they lack permanence. If the owner dies, retires, or withdraws from the
business for some other reason, the company legally
ceases to exist. Even if the company continues to
operate under new ownership, in the eyes of the law,
it becomes a different firm.

6-3

PARTNERSHIPS: TWO HEADS
(AND BANKROLLS) CAN BE
BETTER THAN ONE

There are several types of partnerships, each with its own
specific characteristics. We’ll focus our discussion mainly
on the most basic type, known as a general partnership.
However, we’ll also take a quick look at limited partnerships and limited liability partnerships (LLPs).
6-3a

Formation of General Partnerships

There is no limit on the number of partners who can participate in a general partnership, but most partnerships
consist of only a few partners—often just two. The partnership is formed when the partners enter into a voluntary partnership agreement. It is legally possible to start a
partnership on the basis of a verbal agreement, but doing so is often a recipe for disaster. It’s much safer to get
everything in writing and to seek expert legal assistance
when drawing up the agreement. A typical partnership

mangostock/Shutterstock.com

■■

perform tasks or make decisions in areas where they
lack expertise.

Sharing responsibilities and complementary
skills are one of the advantages of general
business partnerships.

PART TWO: Creating a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

the partners are at risk. When someone sues a general partnership, the lawsuit can target any individual
partner or group of partners. In fact, lawsuits often go
after the partners with the deepest pockets, even if they
did not personally participate in the act that caused the
legal action. In other words, if you have more personal
wealth than the other partners, you could lose more
than they do even if they were the ones at fault!

“It is rare to find a business partner
who is selfless. If you are lucky it
happens once in a lifetime.”
— MI C H A E L E ISNE R, F ORME R DISNE Y C E O
agreement spells out details, such as the initial financial
contributions each partner will make, the specific duties
and responsibilities each will assume, how they will share
profits (and losses), how they will settle disagreements,
and how they will deal with the death or withdrawal of
one of the partners. Well-written agreements can prevent
common misunderstandings.

■■

Potential for Disagreements: If general partners
can’t agree on how to run the business, the conflict can complicate and delay decision making. A
well-drafted partnership agreement usually specifies
how disputes will be resolved, but disagreements
among partners can create friction and hard feelings
that harm morale and undermine the cooperation
needed to keep the business on track.

■■

Lack of Continuity: If a current partner withdraws
from the partnership, the relationships among the
participants will clearly change, potentially ending the
partnership. This creates uncertainty about how long a
partnership will remain in business.

■■

Difficulty in Withdrawing from a Partnership:
A partner who withdraws from a partnership remains
personally liable for any debts or obligations the firm
had at the time of withdrawal—even if those ­obligations
were incurred by the actions of other partners.

6-3b Advantages of General Partnerships
Partnerships offer some key advantages relative to both
sole proprietorships and corporations:
■■

Ability to Pool Financial Resources: With more owners investing in the company, a partnership is likely to
have a stronger financial base than a sole ­proprietorship.

■■

Ability to Share Responsibilities and Capitalize on
Complementary Skills: Partners can share the burden
of running the business, which can ease the workload.
Tasks and jobs can also be divided based on complementary skills, using each partner’s talents to best advantage.

■■

Ease of Formation: In theory, forming a partnership
is easy. As we’ve already noted, it’s possible (but not
advisable) to establish a partnership based on a simple
verbal agreement. But we shouldn’t overemphasize
this advantage. Working out all of the details of a partnership agreement can sometimes be a complex and
time-consuming process.

■■

Possible Tax Advantages: Similar to a sole proprietorship, the earnings of a partnership “pass through” the
business—untouched by the IRS—and are taxed only
as the partners’ personal income. Again, this avoids the
potential for double taxation endemic to corporations.

6-3c

Disadvantages of General Partnerships

6-3d

The risks associated with unlimited liability make general
partnerships unattractive to many individuals who would
otherwise be interested in joining a business partnership.
Fortunately, two other types of partnerships allow some
partners to limit their personal liability to some extent,
although each comes with particular requirements.
The first of these, known as a limited partnership, is
a partnership arrangement that includes at least one general
partner and at least one limited partner. Both types of partners contribute financially to the company and share in its
profits. But in other respects they play different roles:
■■

General partners have the right to participate fully
in managing their partnership, but they also assume
unlimited personal
liability for any of its
limited partnership A
debts—just like the
partnership that includes at least
partners in a general
one general partner who actively
partnership.
manages the company and accepts

■■

Limited partners cannot actively participate
in its management,
but they have the

General partnerships also have some serious disadvantages. Well-written partnership agreements, however, can
mitigate some of these major drawbacks:
■■

Unlimited Liability: As a general partner, you’re not
only liable for your own mistakes but also for those of
your partners. In fact, all general partners have unlimited
liability for the debts and obligations of their business.
So, if the assets they’ve invested in the business aren’t
sufficient to meet these claims, the personal assets of

Limited Partnerships

unlimited liability and one limited
partner who gives up the right to
actively manage the company in
exchange for limited liability.

CHAPTER 6: Business Formation: Choosing the Form That Fits
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

97

Senior Home Care: Today’s Biggest Franchise Opportunity
in all, up from 47.8 million) by 2025, and 78% more (85 million
in all) by 2050. As they age, boomers will increasingly need help
with home care, such as meals, laundry, and cleaning; personal
care, such as dressing and grooming; medical care, such as
rehabilitation following surgery; and daily care among those
suffering from chronic diseases, memory loss, and immobility.

A key to franchise success is serving fast-growing markets.
McDonald’s and Dunkin’ Donuts began franchising in the 1950s
when gasoline and automobiles were inexpensive, thousands
of miles of new interstate roads were being built, and it was
too expensive for typical American families (with three or four
children) to eat at restaurants. Thanks to low costs, fast service,
standardized menus, and thousands of convenient locations,
McDonald’s and Dunkin’ Donuts grew rapidly as consumers
grabbed inexpensive coffee and donuts for breakfast, or
burgers, fries, and shakes for lunch and dinner.

Just as they did with fast food in the 1950s, baby boomers’
health and retirement needs are driving today’s franchise
business opportunities. Claudine Halpern, COO of senior home
care franchise My Elder Advocate LLC, says, “There is no way to
lose with the demographics we see. All of us are planning on
living to 100.” Indeed, the senior home care industry is growing
by 6.6% a year, compared to 2.6% average growth among all
other kinds of franchises.

Rob Marmion/Shutterstock.com

Today’s baby boomers, the children born in the 1950s who grew
up eating at McDonald’s and Dunkin’ Donuts, are retiring at a
rate of 10,000 per day. The U.S. Census Bureau now predicts that
there will be 38% more Americans age 65 and older (66 million

protection of limited liability. This means that, as long
as they do not actively participate in managing the
company, their personal wealth is not at risk.
6-3e Limited Liability Partnerships
The limited liability partnership (LLP) is another
partnership arrangement that is attractive to partners
who want to limit their personal risk. It is similar to a limited partnership in some ways, but it has the advantage
of allowing all partners to take an active role in management while also offering all partners some form of ­limited
liability. In other words, there’s no need to distinguish
between limited and general partners in an LLP.
limited liability partnership
The amount of liability
(LLP) A form of partnership in
protection offered by LLPs
which all partners have the right to
varies among states. In
participate in management and have
some states, LLPs offer “fulllimited liability for company debts.
shield” protection, meaning

98

In addition to their steady growth, senior home care franchises
have low initial costs and strong profitability margins. For
example, the initial cost to establish a BrightStar home care
franchise (315 locations in 38 states) is $92,371 to $174,032.
The cost to establish a Home Instead Inc. home care franchise
(1,110 locations in 12 countries) is $155,000 to $125,000. By
contrast, the initial cost of launching a sit-down restaurant
franchise is roughly $1 million.
Eric Stites, CEO of Franchise Business Review, a market research firm
specializing in franchise business opportunities, says senior care
franchises garner 44% higher annual profits than other franchises
on average ($118,000 vs. $82,000). Stites says, “Of all the sectors we
look at, it has one of the highest returns on investment.”10

that partners have limited liability for all claims against their
company, except those resulting from their own negligence
or malpractice. In other states, partners in LLPs have a lesser
“partial-shield” protection. In these states, each partner has
limited liability for the negligence or malpractice of other
partners but still has unlimited liability for any other debts.
Another drawback is that some states only allow specific
types of professional businesses to form LLPs. For example,
California law allows only accountants, lawyers, and architects
to form LLPs.

6-4

C ORPORATIONS: THE ADVANTAGES
AND DISADVANTAGES OF BEING
AN ARTIFICIAL PERSON

There are several types of corporations. The most common is called a C corporation; when people use the
term “corporation” without specifying which type, they

PART TWO: Creating a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

EXHIBIT 6.3 STOCK OWNERSHIP IN SELECTED MAJOR U.S. CORPORATIONS
Corporation

Shares of Common Stock
Outstanding (Billions)

Total Number of
Stockholders

Percentage of Shares Owned
by Institutional Investors

Apple

5.53

25,641

60.20

Coca-Cola

4.31

224,780

63.20

Ford

3.90

137,858

60,00

GE

8.85

458,000

56.60

IBM

0.951

444,582

59.90

McDonald’s

0.830

1,579,000

69.30

Microsoft

7.78

106,534

72.60

Walmart

3.07

243,327

30.60

Sources: Shares outstanding and percentage of institutional ownership are from the Key Statistics for each corporation reported in Yahoo! Finance (http://finance.yahoo.com/); Information about the number of shareholders is
found in Item 5 (Market for the Company’s Common Equity) of each firm’s 2015/2016 10-K annual report filed with the SEC accessed through the Edgar database (http://www.sec.gov/edgar.shtml) accessed January 18, 2017.

are generally referring to a C corporation. Because it’s the
most common, we’ll devote most of our discussion to
C corporations. However, we’ll also describe three other
types of corporations: S corporations, statutory close (or
closed) corporations, and nonprofit corporations.
6-4a Forming a C Corporation
As mentioned earlier, the formation of a corporation requires filing articles of incorporation and paying filing fees.
It also requires the adoption of corporate bylaws, which
are detailed rules that govern the way the corporation is
organized and managed. Because of these requirements,
forming a corporation tends to be more expensive and
complex than forming a sole proprietorship or partnership.
The requirements, however, vary among the states. Some
states are known for their simple forms, inexpensive fees,
low corporate tax rates, and “corporation-friendly” laws and
court systems. In those states, forming a corporation is not
much harder or more expensive than setting up a sole proprietorship and sometimes can be simpler than forming a
partnership. Not surprisingly, many large companies choose
to incorporate in states with such favorable environments—
even if they intend to do the majority of their business in
other states. Delaware, in particular, has been very successful at attracting corporations. You may not think of Delaware
as the home of corporate power, but more than half of all
publicly traded corporations—and 64% of the firms listed in
the Fortune 500—are incorporated in Delaware.11
6-4b

Ownership of C Corporations

Ownership of C corporations is represented by shares of
stock, so owners are called “stockholders” (or “shareholders”). Common stock represents the basic ownership interest

in a corporation, but some firms also issue preferred stock.
One key difference between the two types of stock involves
voting rights; common stockholders normally have the
right to vote in stockholders’ meetings, while preferred
stockholders do not. As shown in Exhibit 6.3, many large
corporations issue billions of shares of stock and have hundreds of thousands—or even millions—of stockholders.
Stock in large corporations is usually publicly traded,
meaning that anyone with the money and inclination to do
so can buy shares—and that anyone who owns shares is free
to sell them. But many smaller corporations are owned by
just a handful of stockholders who don’t actively trade their
stock. It’s even possible for individuals to incorporate their
business and be the sole shareholder in their corporation.12
Stockholders don’t have to be individuals. Institutional
investors, such as mutual funds, insurance companies, pension funds, and endowment
funds, pool money from a
C corporation The most
large number of individuals
common type of corporation, which
and use these funds to buy
is a legal business entity that offers
stocks and other securities.
limited liability to all of its owners,
As Exhibit 6.3 illustrates, such
who are called stockholders.
institutional investors own
corporate bylaws The
the majority of stock in many
basic rules governing how a
corporation is organized and how
large corporations.
it conducts its business.

6-4c The Role

of the Board
of Directors

It’s not practical for all of
the stockholders of a large
corporation to actively

stockholder An owner of a
corporation.

institutional investor An
organization that pools contributions
from investors, clients, or depositors
and uses these funds to buy stocks
and other securities.

CHAPTER 6: Business Formation: Choosing the Form That Fits
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

99

LLCs: Philanthropy without Foundation
According to Zuckerberg, “By using an LLC instead of a traditional foundation, we receive no tax benefit from transferring
our shares to the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative (CZI), but we gain
flexibility to execute our mission more effectively.” Being an LLC
means that the CZI can spend its funds as quickly (or slowly)
as needed (no annual 5% payout), change how it spends funds
over time, and not have to disclose who it works with or how it
invests its endowment funds. The CZI can even make political
contributions and invest in for-profit businesses, all in support
of its mission of encouraging “personalized learning, curing
disease, connecting people and building strong communities.”
In short, by deploying their wealth through an LLC and not a
traditional foundation, Chan and Zuckerberg believe that they
can “help hundreds of millions of children get an education and
save millions of lives by helping people avoid disease.”13

participate in the management of their company. Besides, most
stockholders don’t have the time, management skills, or desire
to effectively manage such a complex business enterprise.
Thus, in accordance with corporate bylaws, the stockholders
elect a board of directors and rely on this board to oversee
the operation of their company and protect their interests.
The board of directors establishes the corporation’s mission and sets its broad objectives. But board members seldom take an active role in the day-to-day management of
their company. Instead, again in accordance with corporate
bylaws, the board appoints a chief executive officer (CEO) and
other corporate officers to manage the company on a daily
basis. The board also sets the level of compensation for these
officers and monitors their performance to ensure that they
act in a manner consistent with stockholder interests. When
Apple’s sales and profits came in at 3.7% and 0.5%, respectively, below target in 2016, Apple’s Board of Directors cut CEO
Tim Cook’s pay by 15% and cut the pay of other top executives
by 9.6%.14 It also provides advice to these officers on broad
policy issues, approves their major proposals, and ensures
that the company adheres to major regulatory requirements.

bankrupt, the stockholders might find that their stock is
worthless, but their other personal assets are protected.

Adam Berry/Getty Images
Entertainment/Getty Images

Wealthy families often form charitable nonprofit foundations to
direct how their tax deductible philanthropic gifts are used. A
nonprofit foundation must pay out 5% of its endowment each
year, establish a board of directors, annually report strategic
and financial information to the government and the public,
and only support activities related to its charitable mission.
But when Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and wife
Dr. Priscilla Chan
gave away their
$45 billion fortune,
they established a
LLC instead of a
nonprofit because
it gave them more
control and privacy.

6-4d

■■

Permanence: Unless the articles of incorporation specify
a limited duration, corporations can continue operating
as long as they remain financially viable and the majority
of stockholders want the business to continue. Unlike a
sole proprietorship or partnership, a general corporation
is unaffected by the death or withdrawal of an owner.

■■

Ease of Transfer of Ownership: It’s easy for stockholders of publicly traded C corporations to withdraw
from ownership—they simply sell their shares of stock.

■■

Ability to Raise Large Amounts of Financial
Capital: Corporations can raise large amounts of financial capital by issuing shares of stock or by selling formal
IOUs called corporate bonds. The ability to raise money
by issuing these securities gives corporations a major financial advantage over most other forms of ownership.

■■

Ability to Make Use of Specialized Management: Large corporations often find it easier to hire
highly qualified professional managers than proprietorships and partnerships. Major corporations can
typically offer attractive salaries and benefits, and
their permanence and potential for growth offer
managers opportunities for career advancement.

Advantages of C Corporations

Corporations have become the dominant form of business
ownership for several reasons:
■   Limited Liability:

board of directors The
individuals who are elected by
stockholders of a corporation to
represent their interests.

100

As already explained,
stockholders are not
personally liable for the
debts of their company.
If a corporation goes

6-4e Disadvantages of C Corporations
In addition to their significant benefits, C corporations
have a number of drawbacks:
■■

Expense and Complexity of Formation and
­Operation: As we’ve already seen, establishing a

PART TWO: Creating a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

corporation can be more complex and expensive than
forming a sole proprietorship or partnership. Corporations are also subject to more formal operating
requirements. For example, they are required to hold
regular board meetings and keep accurate minutes.
■■

■■

Complications When Operating in More Than
One State: When a business that’s incorporated in
one state does business in other states, it’s called
a “­domestic corporation” in the state where it’s incorporated, and a “foreign corporation” in the other
states. A corporation must register (or “qualify”) as
a foreign corporation in order to do business in
any state other than the one in which it incorporated. This typically requires additional paperwork,
fees, and taxes. But registration as a foreign corporation is only necessary if the company is involved
in substantial business activities within the state.
Businesses that only engage in minor business
activities typically are exempt from the registration requirement. For example, a firm operating a
production facility or maintaining a district office
in a state other than its corporate home would
need to register as a foreign corporation, but a firm
that simply held a bank account or solicited sales
to customers in that state through the mail would
not be required to do so.
Double Taxation of Earnings and Additional
Taxes: The IRS considers a C corporation to be a
separate legal entity and taxes its earnings accordingly.
Then, as shown in Exhibit 6.4, any dividends (earnings
the corporation distributes to stockholders) are taxed
again as the personal income of the stockholders. This
double taxation can take a big bite out of earnings

that are distributed to shareholders. But note that
corporations often reinvest some or all of their profits
back into the business. Shareholders don’t pay income
taxes on these retained earnings. Many states also
impose separate income taxes on corporations. Most
states also impose an annual franchise tax on both
domestic and foreign corporations that operate within
their borders.
■■

More Paperwork, More Regulation, and Less
Secrecy: Corporations are more closely regulated and
are required to file more government paperwork than
other forms of business. Large, publicly traded corporations are required to send annual statements to all
shareholders and to file detailed quarterly and annual
reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The annual report filed with the SEC (called
a Form 10-K) is often hundreds of pages long and
includes a wealth of information about the company’s
operations and financial condition. Anyone can look at
these forms, making it difficult to keep key corporate
information secret from competitors.

“General Electric, one of the
largest corporations in America,
filed a whopping 57,000-page
federal tax return …[which]
would have been 19 feet high if
printed out and stacked.”
— W E E K LY S T A N D A R D

Exhibit 6.4

How Double Taxation Reduces Earnings for Stockholders

Pre- Ta x
Corporate
Earnings

Corporate
Taxes

After Ta x
Corporate
Earnings

Stockholders

Personal
Income
Ta xes

Stockholders’
After-T ax
Income

CHAPTER 6: Business Formation: Choosing the Form That Fits
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

101

EXHIBIT 6.5 CHARACTERISTICS OF S, STATUTORY CLOSE, AND NONPROFIT CORPORATIONS
Type

Key Advantages

Limitations

S Corporation

■■ The IRS does not tax earnings of S corporations separately.

■■ It can have no more than 100 stockholders.

Earnings pass through the company and are taxed only as
income to stockholders, thus avoiding the problem of double
taxation associated with C corporations.

■■ With only rare exceptions, each stockholder must be a

U.S. citizen or permanent resident of the United States
(no ownership by foreigners or other corporations).

■■ Stockholders have limited liability.

Statutory
Close (or
Closed)
Corporation

■■ It can operate under simpler arrangements than conventional

corporations. For example, it doesn’t have to elect a board of
directors or hold an annual stockholders’ meeting.

ies among states but is usually no more than 50.)
■■ Stockholders normally can’t sell their shares to the pub-

lic without first offering the shares to existing owners.

■■ All owners can actively participate in management while still

having limited liability.

Nonprofit
(or Not-forProfit)
Corporation

■■ The number of stockholders is limited. (The number var-

■■ Not all states allow formation of this type of corporation.

■■ Earnings are exempt from federal and state income taxes.

■■ It has members (who may pay dues) but cannot have

stockholders.

■■ Members and directors have limited liability.
■■ Individuals who contribute money or property to the nonprofit

can take a tax deduction, making it easier for these organizations to raise funds from donations.

■■ It cannot distribute dividends to members.
■■ It cannot contribute funds to a political campaign.
■■ It must keep accurate records and file paperwork to

document tax-exempt status.

Possible Conflicts of Interest: The corporate officers appointed by the board are supposed to further
the interests of stockholders. But some top executives pursue policies that further their own interests
(such as prestige, power, job security, high pay, and
attractive perks) at the expense of the stockholders.
The board of directors has an obligation to protect
the interests of stockholders, but in recent years the
boards of several major corporations have come
under criticism for continuing to approve high
compensation packages for top executives, even
when their companies
performed poorly.
S corporation A form of
■■

corporation that avoids double
taxation by having its income taxed
as if it were a partnership.

statutory close (or closed)
corporation A corporation
with a limited number of owners
that operates under simpler, less
formal rules than a C corporation.

nonprofit corporation A
corporation that does not seek to
earn a profit and differs in several
fundamental respects from C
corporations.

acquisition A corporate
restructuring in which one firm
buys another.

102

6-4f Other Types of

Corporations:
Same but
Different

Now that we’ve described
C corporations, let’s take a
quick look at three other
types of corporations: S
­corporations, statutory
close corporations, and
nonprofit corporations.
Like C corporations, each is
created by filing the appropriate paperwork with a

government agency. Also like general corporations, these
corporations are considered legal entities that stand apart
from their owners and can enter into contracts, own property, and take legal action in their own names. But in other
key respects they are quite different from C corporations—
and from each other. Exhibit 6.5 summarizes the basic features of these corporations.
6-4g

Corporate Restructuring

Large corporations constantly look for ways to grow and
achieve competitive advantages. Some corporations work
to achieve these goals, at least in part, through mergers,
acquisitions, and divestitures. We’ll close our discussion
of corporations by taking a quick look at these forms of
corporate restructuring.

Mergers and Acquisitions In the news and casual
conversation, the terms “merger” and “acquisition” are often
used interchangeably. However, there’s a difference between
the two. An acquisition occurs when one firm buys
another firm. The firm making the purchase is called the
“acquiring firm,” and the firm being purchased is called the
“target firm.” After the acquisition, the target firm ceases to
exist as an independent entity while the purchasing firm
continues in operation, and its stock is still traded. But not
all acquisitions are on friendly terms. When the acquiring
firm buys the target firm despite the opposition of the
target’s board and top management, the result is called a
“hostile takeover.”

PART TWO: Creating a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

EXHIBIT 6.6

TYPES OF MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

Type of Merger

Definition

Common Objective

Example

Horizontal
Merger

A combination of firms in the
same industry.

Increase size and market power within
the industry.

U.S.-based Sherwin-Williams, which makes paints
and paint-related products, acquired U.S.-based
Valspar, a paint, coating, and finishes company,
for $11.3 billion.

Improve efficiency by eliminating
duplication of facilities and personnel.

Vertical Merger

Provide tighter integration of producA combination of firms that are
at different stages in the produc- tion and increased control over the
tion of a good or service, creating supply of crucial inputs.
a “buyer-seller” relationship.

China National Chemical Corporation, a Fortune
500 firm and the largest chemical firm in China,
acquired Swiss-based Sygenta AG, which sells
pesticides and soybean seeds, for $43 million.

Conglomerate
Merger

A combination of firms in
unrelated industries.

Chinese-based Midea, a maker of consumer
appliances and heating, ventilation, and
air-conditioning systems, acquired Kuka AG, a
German-based robotics and automation systems
company, for $5 billion.

Reduce risk by making the firm less
vulnerable to adverse conditions in any
single market.

In a merger, instead of one firm buying the other,
the two companies agree to a combination of equals,
joining together to form a new company out of the two
previously independent firms. Exhibit 6.6 describes the
three most common types of corporate combinations.

Divestitures: When Less Is More Sometimes

Drop of Light/Shutterstock.com

c­ orporations restructure by subtraction rather than by
addition. A divestiture occurs when a firm transfers
total or partial ownership of some of its operations to
investors or to another company. Firms often use divestitures to rid themselves of a part of their company that

In February 2017, Time Warner
shareholders voted overwhelmingly in
favor of an $85.4 billion merger with
telecom giant AT&T. Shareholder approval
was largely expected. Governmental
approval, on the other hand, could prove
more challenging.

no longer fits well with their strategic plans. This allows
them to streamline their operations and focus on their
core businesses. In many (but not all) cases, divestitures
involve the sale of assets to outsiders, which raises financial capital for the firm.
One common type of divestiture, called a “spin-off,”
occurs when a company issues stock in one of its own divisions or operating units and sets it up as a separate
company—complete with its own board of directors
and corporate officers. It then distributes the stock in
the new company to its existing stockholders. After the
spin-off, the stockholders end up owning two separate
companies rather than one. They can then buy, sell, or
hold either (or both) stocks as they see fit. While a spinoff allows a corporation to eliminate a division that no
longer fits in its plans, it
doesn’t actually generate
horizontal merger A
any additional funds for
combination of two firms that are
in the same industry.
the firm.
A “carve-out” is like
vertical merger A
a spin-off in that the firm
combination of firms at different
stages in the production of a
converts a particular unit or
good or service.
division into a separate company and issues stock in the
conglomerate merger A
combination of two firms that are
newly created corporation.
in unrelated industries.
However, instead of distributing the new stock to its
merger A corporate
restructuring that occurs when
current stockholders, it sells
two formerly independent
the stock to outside invesbusiness entities combine to form
tors, thus raising additional
a new organization.
financial capital. In many
divestiture The transfer of
cases, the firm sells only a
total or partial ownership of some
minority of the total shares,
of a firm’s operations to investors
so that it maintains majority
or to another company.
ownership.
CHAPTER 6: Business Formation: Choosing the Form That Fits

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

103

Divestiture: HP Spins Off HP Enterprises
Companies use divestiture to transfer total or partial ownership of
some of their operations to investors or to another company. When
a part of a company no longer fits strategically, divesting allows
the firm to streamline operations and refocus on its core business.
A common divestiture, called a spin-off, occurs when a company
sets up a division as a separate company—complete with its
own board of directors, corporate officers, and stock. The parent
company then distributes stock in the new company to its existing
stockholders. After the spin-off, the stockholders own shares of
two separate companies, which they can buy, sell, or hold like any
other stock.

drserg/Shutterstock.com

Silicon Valley was born in 1938, when David Packard and Bill
Hewlett shared the rent of a home at 367 Addison Avenue
in Palo Alto, California. Packard and his wife, Lucile, lived in
the first-floor
apartment, while
Bill Hewlett slept
in a shed in the
backyard. Their
start-up company
used the property’s
single-car garage
as an office and
workshop. The

6-5

T HE LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY:
THE NEW KID ON THE BLOCK

As the newest form of business ownership, state laws concerning the legal status and formation of LLCs are still evolving. Several states have recently revised their statutes to make
forming LLCs simpler and to make transfer of ownership
easier. Other states have kept more restrictive requirements
intact. This diversity of state requirements, and the continuing
evolution of LLC statutes, makes it difficult to provide meaningful generalizations about this form of ownership.16
6-5a

Forming and Managing an LLC

In many respects, forming an LLC is similar to forming a
corporation. As with corporations, LLCs are created by
filing a document (which goes by a variety of names, such
as certificate of organization or articles of organization)
and ­paying filing fees in the state where the business is
organized. Organizers of most LLCs also draft an operating
agreement, which is similar to the bylaws of a corporation.
Some states also require LLCs to publish a notice of intent
to operate as a LLC.

104

resulting business, Hewlett-Packard, became one of Silicon
Valley’s oldest and most successful companies.
But after eight decades in business, Hewlett-Packard announced
in 2014 that it would spin off into two separate, publicly held
companies. Today, HP Inc. makes and sells personal computers
and printers. Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) sells large
computer servers, data storage and networking equipment,
software, and consulting services. The primary reason for the
divestiture was strategic. Hewlett-Packard CEO Meg Whitman
(who became HPE CEO) explained, “We’re leaving behind a
company that was very large, running two businesses that were
very different. We’re creating two new big companies, not bitesized morsels, with real capabilities to change things.”
The spin-off took a year of planning, as a team of 500 created,
cloned, and tested 2,800 computer applications and 75,000
computer interfaces to ensure that each company’s operations
would not be affected by the change.
In the wake of the spin-off, the two companies have independent
boards of directors and issue different shares of stock. As of
January 2017, HP Inc. (stock symbol HPQ) has 1.71 billion shares
outstanding for a total market capitalization of $25.12 billion,
while HPE (stock symbol HPE) has 1.66 billion shares outstanding
and a total market capitalization of $38.09 billion.15

Because LLCs are neither corporations nor partnerships,
their owners are called members rather than stockholders or
partners. Members of LLCs often manage their own company
under an arrangement similar to the relationship among
general partners in a partnership. However, some LLCs hire
professional managers who have responsibilities much like
those of the CEO and other top officers of ­corporations.
6-5b

Advantages of LLCs

Why are LLCs becoming so popular? This form of ownership offers significant advantages:
■■

Limited Liability: Similar to a corporation, all owners
of an LLC have limited liability.

■■

Tax Pass-Through: As mentioned at the beginning of
this chapter, for tax purposes the owners of LLCs may
elect to have their companies treated as either a corporation or a partnership—or even as a sole proprietorship
if owned by a single person. The default tax classification
for LLCs with more than one owner—and the one most
LLCs choose—is the partnership option. Under this
arrangement, there is no separate tax on the earnings of
the company. Instead, earnings “pass through” the

PART TWO: Creating a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

■

Simplicity and Flexibility in Management and
Operation: Unlike corporations, LLCs aren’t required
to hold regular board meetings. Also, LLCs are subject
to less paperwork and fewer
reporting requirements than
corporations.

■     Flexible Ownership:

Unlike S corporations, LLCs
can have any number of
owners. Also unlike S corporations, the owners of LLCs
can include foreign investors and other corporations.
However, some states do
make it difficult to transfer
ownership to outsiders.

6-5c Limitations and Disadvantages of LLCs
Despite their increasing popularity, LLCs have some limitations and drawbacks:
■     Complexity of Formation: Because of the need to

file articles of organization and pay filing fees, LLCs
can take more time and effort to form than sole
proprietorships. In general, forming an LLC is also
more difficult than creating a partnership. But as we
mentioned ­earlier, the formation of a partnership
        requires a “meeting of
the minds” of the partners, which isn’t always
easy to achieve. So in
some cases, the formation of a partnership
can prove to be every
bit as challenging as the
formation of an LLC.
■     Annual Franchise
dizain/Shutterstock.com

company and are taxed only as income of the owners.
This eliminates the double taxation of profits that is endemic to general corporations. However, there are some
cases where it makes sense for LLCs to elect to be taxed
as a corporation. For example, the owner of a singleperson LLC can avoid paying self-employment taxes by
electing to have the LLC treated as a corporation rather
than as a sole proprietorship.

Tax: Even though they
may be exempt from
corporate income taxes,
many states require
LLCs to pay an annual
franchise tax.

Running Your Own Business: Start Fresh or Franchise?

Aspiring entrepreneurs don’t need
to build new businesses from
scratch, however. With franchising,
a franchisor licenses the franchisee to use its name, trademark,
products, and business methods.
In short, franchising allows a
businessperson to launch a new
business with the support of a
successful brand and backed by a
proven business model. Moreover,
starting a franchise often costs less
than starting a fresh new business.

Thanks to crowded franchise markets, many franchisors have begun discounting initial franchisee fees and royalties. For example,
Cincinnati-based sports restaurant chain Buffalo Wings & Rings
sold just three franchises in 2013. After cutting its franchisee fee
from $35,000 to $5,000, however, the restaurant went on to sell 17
new franchises in 2014. Buffalo Wings & Rings’ Director of Franchise
Development Dan Doulen says, “In the grand scheme of things,
$30,000 doesn’t seem like a huge amount—but it is to those
investors . . . [who] think about every penny they spend.”

iStock.com/Skyhobo

While millions dream of running their own businesses, cost and
inexperience are two big reasons one-third to one-quarter of small
businesses fail within two years. Inexperienced entrepreneurs
often struggle to get customers to buy from them rather than from
existing businesses, and small business owners typically need a
great deal of start-up capital to pay for offices, facilities, transportation, insurance, and salaries (but probably not for themselves
until the business establishes itself financially). It’s not easy!

And once a franchise is successful, franchisors often offer even
bigger discounts. Denny’s restaurant chain, for instance, offers up to $1 million in discounts
on fees for current franchisees
who commit to opening six restaurants in untapped markets.
Again, not an easy task by any
means, but certainly easier than
opening six new restaurants
from scratch.17

CHAPTER 6: Business Formation: Choosing the Form That Fits
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

105

Foreign Status in Other States: Like corporations,
LLCs must register or qualify to operate as “foreign”
companies when they do business in states other than
the state in which they were organized. This results in
additional paperwork, fees, and taxes.

■■

Limits on Types of Firms that Can Form LLCs: Most
states do not permit banks, insurance companies, and
nonprofit organizations to operate as LLCs.

■■

Differences in State Laws: As we’ve already
mentioned, LLC laws are still evolving—and their
specific requirements vary considerably among
the states. In 2006, the National Conference of
Commissioners on Uniform State Laws created a
Revised Uniform Limited Liability Company Act
that could be used as a model by all states. To
date, only a few states have adopted this law. Until
there is more uniformity in state laws, operating
LLCs in more than one state is likely to remain a
complex endeavor.18

6-6

F RANCHISING: PROVEN
METHODS FOR A PRICE

franchise A licensing
arrangement under which a
franchisor allows franchisees to
use its name, trademark, products,
business methods, and other
property in exchange for monetary
payments and other considerations.

franchisor The business
entity in a franchise relationship
that allows others to operate
its business using resources it
supplies in exchange for money
and other considerations.
franchisee The party in a
franchise relationship that pays for
the right to use resources supplied
by the franchisor.

distributorship A type of
franchising arrangement in which
the franchisor makes a product and
licenses the franchisee to sell it.
business format franchise
A broad franchise agreement in
which the franchisee pays for the
right to use the name, trademark,
and business and production
methods of the franchisor.

106

A franchise is a licensing
arrangement under which
one party (the franchisor)
allows another party (the
­franchisee) to use its
name, trademark, patents, copyrights, business methods, and other
property in exchange for
monetary payments and
other considerations. Franchising has become a very
popular way to operate a
business and an important
source of employment
and income. A 2016 study
conducted by Global Insight for the International
Franchising Association’s
Education
Foundation
reported that 783,000
franchise establishments
operated in the United
States, employing more
than 8.83 million workers.
And according to another

charnsitr/Shutterstock.com

■■

While franchises are usually associated
with restaurants, any kind of business
can be operated as a franchise. Some nonrestaurant franchises in the United States
include convenience store 7 Eleven, hotel
chain Marriott International, Chem-Dry
Carpet Cleaning, and car rental service
Hertz.

franchising study published by the Bureau of the Census,
franchise establishments dominate several major markets
such as fast food, auto dealerships, convenience stores,
and private mail distribution centers.19
The two most popular types of franchise arrangements are distributorships and business format
­franchises. In a distributorship, the franchisor makes a
product and grants distributors a license to sell it. The most
common example of this type of franchise is the arrangement between automakers and the dealerships that sell their
cars. In a business format franchise, the franchisor grants the
franchisee the right to both make and sell its good or service. Under this arrangement, the franchisor usually provides
a wide range of services to the franchisee, such as help with
site selection, training, and help in obtaining financing, but
also requires the franchisee to follow very specific guidelines
while operating the business. You’re no doubt very familiar
with business format franchises; examples include Wendy’s,
Supercuts, Jiffy Lube, and Massage Envy.
6-6a

Franchising in Today’s Economy

Franchising is now a well-established method of operating
a business—but that doesn’t mean it’s static. Let’s look at
some ways the world of franchising is changing.
One of the biggest trends in franchising for the past
several years has been an expansion into foreign markets. Franchisors in a variety of industries have found that

PART TWO: Creating a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

help them reach potential minority franchisees more
effectively. As of April 2015, DiversityFran had 119 participating franchisors, including such major players as Chick-fil-A,
Dunkin’ Donuts, and KFC-YUM! Brands (which owns KFC, Taco
Bell, and Pizza Hut), all pledging to actively recruit minority
franchisees.25
6-6b

Advantages of Franchising

Both the franchisee and the franchisor must believe they’ll
benefit from the franchise arrangement; otherwise, they
wouldn’t participate. The advantages of franchising for the
franchisor are fairly obvious. It allows the franchisor to expand the business and bring in additional revenue (in the
form of franchising fees and royalties) without investing its
own capital. Also, franchisees—business owners who are
motivated to earn a profit—may have a greater incentive
than salaried managers to do whatever it takes to maximize the success of their outlets.
From the franchisee’s perspective, franchising offers
several advantages:
■■

Less Risk: Franchises offer access to a proven business system and product. The systems and methods
offered by franchisors have an established track record.
People who are interested in buying a franchise can
do research to see how stores in the franchise have
performed and can talk to existing franchisees before
investing.

■■

Training and Support: The franchisor normally
provides the franchisee with extensive training and support. For example, Subway offers two weeks of training
at its headquarters and additional training at meetings.

iStock.com/Kali Nine LLC

opportunities for franchise growth are greater in foreign
countries because competition is less intense, and markets are less saturated than in the United States. In 2016,
McDonald’s had 17,389 franchise outlets in foreign countries (4,411 more than it had in the United States), Subway
had 17,950, and 7–11 had 50,712.20 Of course, operating in
foreign countries can pose special challenges. Differences
in culture, language, laws, demographics, and economic
development mean that franchisors, like other types of
business owners, must adjust their business methods—
and the specific products they offer—to meet the needs
of foreign consumers.
Another notable trend has been the growth in the
number of women franchisees. Reliable statistics on
women in franchising are difficult to find, but the International Franchising Association (IFA) estimates that women
now own about 45% of all franchises, and anecdotal
evidence suggests that the trend toward more womenowned franchises is continuing. A number of women, such
as Dzana Homan (founder of School of Rock music lesson
franchises), and Eileen Huntington, co-founder of Huntington Learning Centers, also have become very successful
franchisors.21 But, despite these highly visible success stories, the number of women franchisors hasn’t grown nearly
as fast as the number of women franchisees.22
Minority participation in franchises, both as franchisees and franchisors, has been relatively low. African
Americans, Hispanics, Asian Americans, and Native Americans make up about a third of the population, and that
share is expected to steadily grow over the next several
decades. Indeed, 20.5% of franchises are minority-owned,
which is roughly 50% higher than 14.2% for nonfranchised
businesses.23 One of the main reasons for such low minority
involvement in franchising is a lack of awareness of
franchising opportunities within minority communities.
But many franchisors are now making a strong effort to
actively recruit minority franchisees.24
Two major initiatives have given the efforts to reach
minority franchising a boost in recent years. The first, known
as the National Minority Franchising Initiative (NMFI), was
founded in 2000. The NMFI’s website currently maintains a
directory of more than 500 franchisors who actively promote
minority franchise ownership. The second initiative, called
DiversityFran, was established in early 2006 by the IFA. This
initiative has the cooperation of a variety of organizations
interested in promoting minority business ownership, including the National Urban League, the Association of Small
Business Development Centers, the U.S. Pan Asian American
Chamber of Commerce, and the Minority Business Development Agency. Franchisors participating in the program
receive information and marketing materials designed to

The National Minority Franchising
Initiative (NMFI) and DiversityFran
are two programs founded to promote
minority business ownership.

CHAPTER 6: Business Formation: Choosing the Form That Fits
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

107

EXHIBIT 6.7 FRANCHISEE COSTS FOR SELECTED FRANCHISES
Initial Franchisee
Fee

Ongoing
Royalty*

Estimated Minimum
Initial Investment

Franchise

Type of Business

Coffee News

Newspaper distributed at restaurants

$8,500

$25 to $80/wk.

$9,750 to $10,750

Anytime Fitness

24/7 Fitness club

$19,000 to $37,500

$549/mo.

$80,020 to $490,100

Subway

Fast food

$15,000

8%

$116,600 to $263,150

Papa John’s

Pizza delivery

$25,000

5%

$129,910 to $844,210

Great Clips

Hair styling

$20,000

6%

$132,250 to $253,100

The UPS Store

Mailing and business

$29,950

5%

$159,224 to $434,521

The Joint

Chiropractic care

$39,900

7%

$216,200 to $331,700

Jiffy Lube

Automobile maintenance

$10,000

3%

$219,000 to $400,000

*Royalty is expressed as a percentage of gross revenues unless otherwise specified.
Source: Individual franchise opportunity pages for each listed franchise on the Entrepreneur.com website, http://www.entrepreneur.com/franchiseopportunities/index.html, accessed January 19, 2017.

The franchisor also sends out newsletters, provides Internet support, maintains a toll-free number for phone
support, and provides on-site evaluations.26
■■

Brand Recognition: Operating a franchise gives the
franchisee instant brand-name recognition, which can
be a big help in attracting customers.

■■

Easier Access to Funding: Bankers and other lenders
may be more willing to lend money if the business
is part of an established franchise than if it is a new,
unproven business.

6-6c

Disadvantages of Franchising

Franchising also has some drawbacks. From the franchisor’s
perspective, operating a business with perhaps thousands
of semi-independent owner–operators can be complex and
challenging. With such a large number of owners, it can be difficult to keep all of the franchisees satisfied, and disappointed
franchisees sometimes go public with their complaints, damaging the reputation of the franchisor. In fact, it isn’t unusual
for disgruntled franchisees to sue their franchisors.
Franchisees are also likely to find some disadvantages:
■■

108

vary considerably, but for high-profile franchises, they
can be substantial. Exhibit 6.7 compares the initial
franchise fees, ongoing royalties, and minimum initial
investment for several well-established franchises.
(Initial investment reflects the fact that the cost of
starting a franchise generally requires the franchisee
to invest in property, equipment, and inventory in
addition to paying the franchise fee. The actual total
investment that franchisees make is often substantially higher than the estimated minimum investment cited in Exhibit 6.7.)
■■

 ack of Control: The franchise agreement usually
L
requires the franchisee to follow the franchisor’s procedures to the letter. People who want the freedom and
flexibility to be their own boss can find these restrictions frustrating.

■■

 egative Halo Effect: The irresponsible or incomN
petent behavior of a few franchisees can create a
negative perception that adversely affects not only
the franchise as a whole but also the success of other
franchisees.

Growth Challenges: While growth and expansion
are definitely possible in franchising (many franchisees own multiple outlets), strings are attached.
Franchise agreements usually
limit the franchisee’s territory and
require franchisor approval before
for
expanding into other areas.
■■

Costs: The typical franchise agreement requires
franchisees to pay an initial franchise fee when
they enter into the franchise
agreement and an ongoing
royalty (usually a percentage
“In business
of monthly sales revenues)
yourself, not by
to the franchisor. In addition,
yourself.”
the franchisor may assess
other fees to support national
— R AY K R O C , F O U N D E R ,
advertising campaigns or for
M C D O N A L D ’S R E S TA U R A N T S
other ­purposes. These costs

■     Restrictions on Sale: Franchise

agreements normally prevent franchisees from selling their franchises
to other investors without prior
approval from the ­franchisor.

PART TWO: Creating a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Large Fries: McDonald’s Moves Toward
Multiple-Store Franchisees
Mike Guerin, who bought his first McDonald’s franchise in the
UK 23 years ago, now owns 12.

If you’re trying to decide whether franchising is a good
opportunity, know that the millions of business people who
bought and run franchises did so because franchising offers
reduced risk, training and support from the franchisor, the
advantage of instant brand recognition (as opposed to
building a new brand from scratch), and easier access to
funding as bankers and other lenders have greater confidence that a franchise business will succeed. Akram Khan,
a KFC franchisee in the United Kingdom (UK) says, “When
the opportunity to buy a franchise came up, I jumped at
it. I like the structure of franchising—I haven’t got the
confidence to open my own restaurant. This way, you have
the autonomy of your own restaurant but you have access
to expertise.”

Today, however, it is increasingly difficult for a small
franchisee to succeed. Ted Lezotte, who owned McDonald’s
franchises for more than three decades, sold his six stores
because of large remodeling costs, which can run from
$600,000 for an interior makeover of an existing store to as
high as $1 million to $2 million for a complete tear down
and rebuild of an old McDonald’s. Common additional costs
include $125,000 to install touchscreen ordering systems
that let diners customize orders, $13,000 for McCafé
espresso machines, $4,500 for the special equipment that
bakes fresh muffins, and anywhere from $500 to $5000
for the additional equipment needed to serve all day
breakfast (which McDonald’s now offers). Lezotte says,
“In today’s financial world, it’s becoming necessary to
have more than a couple [of stores] to survive. Ten [stores]
kind of gives you a good footing.” Five of Lezotte’s stores
were sold to larger McDonald’s franchisees, while the sixth
was closed.

Sorbis/Shutterstock.com

While most franchisees start with one store and one location,
many enter franchising with the aim of owning multiple
franchises. Indeed, Akron Khan now owns 15 KFC franchises.

■■

Poor Execution: Not all franchisors live up to their
promises. Sometimes the training and support are
of poor quality, and sometimes the company does a
poor job of screening franchisees, leading to the negative halo effect we mentioned previously.

These considerations suggest that before buying a
franchise, potential owners should carefully research the
franchise opportunity.
6-6d Entering into a Franchise Agreement
To obtain a franchise, the franchisee must sign a franchise
agreement. This agreement is a legally binding contract
that specifies the relationship between the franchisor and

Rob Hunziker, who runs a restaurant brokerage called advanced
restaurant sales, says that McDonald’s is, “encouraging the
smaller franchisees to sell out.” When you have thousands
of franchisees that you need to keep monitored or updated,
it’s just difficult and expensive for the parent company.” The
percentage of McDonald’s franchisees who own five or fewer
restaurants has dropped 4.6% since 2014, while the number
running 10 or more stores has increased by 12%. CEO Steve
Easterbrook says, “Does that give us fewer, [but] stronger
operators and a stronger balance sheet and their ability to
invest in scale? It could.”27

the franchisee in great detail. There’s no standard form for
the contract, but some of the key items normally covered
include the following:
■

Terms and Conditions: The franchisee’s rights to
use the franchisor’s trademarks, patents, and signage,
and any restrictions
on those rights. It
franchise agreement
also covers how
The contractual arrangement
long the agreement
between a franchisor and
will last and under
franchisee that spells out the
what terms (and at
duties and responsibilities of
what cost) it can be
both parties.
renewed.
CHAPTER 6: Business Formation: Choosing the Form That Fits

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

109

■

Fees and Other Payments: The fees the franchisee must pay for the right to use the franchisor’s
products and methods, and when these payments
are due.

■

Training and Support: The types of training
and support the franchisor will provide to the
franchisee.

■

Specific Operational Requirements: The methods
and standards established by the franchisor that the
franchisee is required to follow.

■

Conflict Resolution: How the ­franchisor and franchisee will handle disputes.

■   Assigned Territory: The geographic area in which

the franchisee will operate and whether the franchisee
has exclusive rights in that area.

Franchise Disclosure
Document (FDD) A detailed
description of all aspects of a
franchise that the franchisor
must provide to the franchisee at
least 14 calendar days before the
franchise agreement is signed.

It’s vital for anyone thinking about entering into
a franchise agreement to
know all the facts before
signing on the dotted line.
Fortunately, the Federal
Trade Commission (FTC)
requires franchisors to provide potential franchisees

with a document known as a Franchise Disclosure
Document (FDD). This long, complex document
(covering 23 separate major topics and sometimes running well over 100 pages) can be an invaluable source of
information about virtually every aspect of the franchise
arrangement. For example, the FDD must provide contact information for at least 100 current franchisees. (If
the franchisor has fewer than 100 current franchisees, it
must list all of them.) This gives a potential franchisee
the ability to contact other franchisees and ask them
about their experiences with the franchisor. As an
added bonus, the FTC requires the FDD to be written
in “plain English” rather than in the complex legal jargon that often characterizes such documents. This rule
means you actually have a chance to understand what
you’re reading!28
Under FTC rules, the franchisor must give the franchisee at least 14 calendar days to review the FDD before the
franchise agreement can be signed. A careful study of the
FDD can go a long way toward ensuring that the franchisee makes an informed decision. Even though the FDD is
written in “plain English,” it’s a good idea to have a lawyer
who is knowledgeable about franchise law review it. You’ll
have to pay for any legal advice, but entering into a bad
franchise agreement can be a lot more expensive (and
stressful) than a lawyer’s fees.

THE BIG PICTURE
This chapter discusses the four major forms of
business ownership. Each form of ownership
has both advantages and limitations, so no single form of
ownership is the best in all situations.
Sole proprietorships are appealing to entrepreneurs who
want to start a business quickly, with few formalities or fees,
and who want to be their own boss. But sole proprietorships
aren’t well suited for raising financing from external sources,
so growth opportunities are limited. And sole proprietors
have unlimited liability for their company’s debts and
obligations.
General partnerships allow two or more owners to pool financial
resources and take advantage of complementary skills. But each
owner must assume the risk of unlimited liability, and disagreements among partners can complicate and delay important
decisions.

110

Corporations are more complex and expensive to create than
other forms of business. Another potentially serious drawback
is the double taxation of earnings. But corporations have the
greatest potential for raising financial capital and provide owners with the protection of limited liability.
The limited liability company (LLC) is a relatively new form of
business ownership that offers many of the advantages of corporations without as many regulations. One major advantage of
LLCs compared to corporations is that its earnings can be taxed
as if the company is a partnership, thus avoiding double taxation. But the laws governing limited liability companies vary
considerably among states, making it a challenge to operate an
LLC in multiple states.

PART TWO: Creating a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

CAREERS IN FRANCHISING
Franchise Store Manager
Responsible for running day-to-day retail store operations.
Required to open and close the store; manage schedules and
productivity; provide world-class customer service; ­monitor
cost control, payroll, and expenses; provide weekly and
monthly reports to the franchise owner; recruit, train, and coach

STUDY TOOLS

employees; and develop and implement store marketing program.
Ultimately accountable for profit/loss, continuous improvement,
service delivery levels, personnel management, and business
development. The ideal candidate has a college degree, a dynamic
personality, two years of retail store operations experience, strong
management skills, excellent computer knowledge, and is a good
listener who can motivate a team and run good meetings.

6

LOCATED AT BACK OF THE TEXTBOOK
■■

Rip-Out Chapter Review Card

■■

Gain unique perspectives on key concepts with new concept
videos in the e-book
Increase your comprehension with online homework and
quizzes

■■

■■

Study with existing flashcards and make your own

CHAPTER 6: Business Formation: Choosing the Form That Fits
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

111

7

Small Business
and Entrepreneurship:
Economic Rocket Fuel

LEARNING OBJECTIVES
7-1 Explain the key reasons to launch a small business

Remember to visit

7-2 Describe the typical entrepreneurial mindset and characteristics

PAGE 126

7-3 Discuss funding options for small business

for additional

7-4 Analyze the opportunities and threats that small businesses face
7-5 Discuss ways to become a new business owner and tools to facilitate success

STUDY TOOLS

7-6 Explain the size, scope, and economic contributions of small business

7-1

LAUNCHING A NEW VENTURE: WHAT’S IN IT FOR ME?

Over time, the entrepreneurship rate has played a powerful, positive
role in the U.S. economy. The new business creation rate in 2014 showed
the largest year-over-year increase of the last two decades, but start-up
activity still remains below historic norms. As the economy continued
to gain momentum, unemployed workers were able to find jobs rather
than turn to entrepreneurship.1 The drop in entrepreneurship has been
especially sharp among Generation Y (born between early 1980s and early
2000s). Despite their strong entrepreneurial spirit—65% have a desire to
start their own business—many are struggling with heavy student debt
and a challenging job market. Since the prime age for entrepreneurship is
late 30s to early 40s, a burst of entrepreneurial activity may lie ahead as
the huge Generation Y reaches that age range.2
Starting a new business can be tough—very tough. Yet, for
the right person, the advantages of business ownership far
outweigh the risk and hard work. Although people start their

112

own ventures for a variety of reasons, most are seeking some
combination of greater financial success, independence,
flexibility, and challenge. Others are simply seeking survival.

PART TWO: Creating a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

ESB Professional/Shutterstock.com

After studying this chapter, you will be able to:

7-1a  Greater Financial Success
Although you can make a pretty good living working for
someone else, your chances of getting really rich may be
higher if you start your own business. The Forbes magazine
annual list of the 400 richest Americans is dominated by
entrepreneurs, such as Bill Gates and Paul Allen (founders of Microsoft), Phil Knight (founder of Nike), Michael Dell
(founder of Dell Inc.), and Sergey Brin and Larry Page
(founders of Google). And many people feel that their
chances of even moderate financial success are higher if
they’re working for themselves rather than someone else.
The opportunity to make more money is a primary motivator for many entrepreneurs, although other factors clearly
play a role as well.3
7-1b  Independence
Being your own boss is a huge benefit of starting your
own business. You answer to no one other than yourself
and any investors whom you invite to participate in your
business. Bottom line: You are the only one who is ultimately responsible for your success or failure. This setup
is especially compelling for people who have trouble being ­subordinates because of their personalities (and we

“In the end, a vision without the
ability to execute it is probably
a hallucination.”
—STEVE CASE, CO-FOUNDER AMERICA
O N L I N E , C H A I R M A N , S TA R T U P A M E R I C A
PA R T NE R S H I P

“Obviously everyone wants to be
successful, but I want to be looked
back on as being very innovative,
very trusted and ethical and
ultimately making a big difference
in the world.”
—SERGEY BRIN, CO-FOUNDER, GOOGLE
probably all know someone
who fits that description!).
But while independence is
nice, it’s important to keep
in mind that every business

entrepreneurs People who
risk their time, money, and other
resources to start and manage a
business.

CHAPTER 7: Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Economic Rocket Fuel
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

113

depends on meeting the needs
of its customers, who can be
even more demanding than the
toughest boss.

satisfaction for many people than
grinding out the hours as an employee.

“Whatever you’re
thinking, think
bigger.”

7-1c  Flexibility

7-1e  Survival

Although most entrepreneurs launch
their business in response to an opportunity with hopes of improving their
lives, some entrepreneurs—called “necessity ­entrepreneurs”—launch their business because they
believe it is their only economic option. Necessity entrepreneurs range from middle-aged workers laid off from
corporate jobs, to new immigrants with limited English and
heavy accents, to those who experience discrimination in
the standard workplace. For each of these types of people,
small business ownership can be the right choice in the face
of few other alternatives.

—T ON Y HSIE H, F OUNDE R,
ZAPPOS.COM

The ability to set your own hours
and control your own schedule
is a hugely appealing benefit for many business owners,
especially parents seeking more time with their kids or retirees looking for extra income. Given current technological tools—from email to eBay—it’s easy for small business
owners to manage their firms on the go or after hours. Of
course, there’s often a correlation between hours worked
and dollars earned. (It’s rare to work less and earn more.)
But when more money isn’t the primary goal, the need for
flexibility can be enough to motivate many entrepreneurs
to launch their own enterprise.
7-1d  Challenge
Running your own business provides a level of challenge
unmatched by many other endeavors. Most business
owners—especially new business owners—never find
­
themselves bored! Starting a business also offers endless
opportunities for learning that can provide more profound

7-2

THE ENTREPRENEUR:
A DISTINCTIVE PROFILE

Successful entrepreneurs tend to stand out from the
crowd in terms of both their mindset and their personal
characteristics. As you read this section, consider whether
you fit the entrepreneurial profile.

Eccentric Entrepreneurs
▪▪ Mark Zuckerberg, founder of Facebook, personally
butchered all the animals he ate in 2011.
▪▪ Automobile tycoon Henry Ford ate weeds from his garden,
and even ate sandwiches filled with weeds.
▪▪ Dustin Moscovitz, Zuckerberg’s college roommate at Harvard
and Facebook’s third employee, still rides his bicycle to work
despite being the world’s youngest billionaire at age 29.
▪▪ Marc Andreessen, founder of Netscape, blogs in his underwear.
▪▪ David Karp, CEO of Tumblr, prides himself on ignoring email.
▪▪ Paul Graham, founder of Y Combinator, wrote an essay titled
“Why Nerds Are Unpopular.”
▪▪ Co-founder of Apple Steve Jobs would eat only one type
of food, such as carrots or apples, for weeks at a time. He
reportedly ate so many carrots at one time that his skin
turned bright orange. Jobs also believed that his restrictive,
vegan diet meant that his body was free from body odor and
allowed him to bathe only once per week.

114

▪▪ John Harvey Kellogg (pictured), founder of the
cereal empire, began his career as a medical doctor,
and was once the chief physician at the Western Health
Reform Institute of Battle Creek, where he argued that
people should have yogurt enemas on a daily basis.
Perhaps we should all be thankful that his corn
flakes went mainstream, rather than his other ideas
about health.
So if you’re a quirky
individual, you may
want to consider
nurturing your
quirks, not hiding
them. Who knows?
Even if you’re not the
world’s next billionaire, your quirks may
give you a common
interest with him
or her, which could
ultimately land you
a great job!4

PART TWO: Creating a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

AP Images

Do quirky people become entrepreneurs, or does successful entrepreneurship breed quirkiness? Hard to know which comes first,
but it’s not hard to find quirky entrepreneurs. Some highlights:

Exhibit 7.1

Entrepreneurial Characteristics

Vis ion

nce

Self-Relia

Energy

of
Tolerance
ty
Uncertain

7-2a  The Entrepreneurial Mindset:

A Matter of Attitude

Almost every entrepreneur starts as a small businessperson—either launching a firm or buying a firm—but
not every small businessperson starts as an entrepreneur.
The difference is a matter of attitude. From day one, a
true entrepreneur—such as Sam Walton of Walmart,
Steve Jobs of Apple, or Jeff Bezos of Amazon—aims to
change the world through blockbuster goods or services.
That isn’t the case for all small business owners. Most
people who launch new firms expect to better themselves, but they don’t expect huge, transformative
growth. In fact, nearly 70% of small business owners say
they don’t want to grow any larger.5
However, classic entrepreneurs who deliver on the
promise of their best ideas can dramatically change the
economic and social landscape worldwide. Examples of
business owners who thought and delivered big include
Henry Ford, founder of the Ford Motor Company and originator of assembly line production; Walt Disney, founder of
The Walt Disney Company and creator of Mickey Mouse;
Mary Kay Ash, founder of a cosmetics powerhouse;
­Martha Stewart, lifestyle innovator for the masses; Stephenie Meyer, creator of the T­ wilight franchise; and Mark
­Zuckerberg, founder of Facebook.

Tolerance
of
Failure

Arek Malang/Shutterstock.com

Confidence

7-2b  Entrepreneurial Characteristics
While experts sometimes disagree about the specific characteristics of successful entrepreneurs, virtually all include
vision, self-reliance, energy, confidence, tolerance of uncertainty, and tolerance of failure. (See Exhibit 7.1.) Most
successful entrepreneurs have all of these qualities and
more, but they come in a huge variety of combinations
that highlight the complexity of personality: there is no
one successful entrepreneurial profile.

Vision Most entrepreneurs are wildly excited about their
own new ideas, which many seem to draw from a bottomless well. Entrepreneurs find new solutions to old problems,
and they develop new products that we didn’t even know we
needed until we had them. And entrepreneurs stay excited
about their ideas, even when friends and relatives threaten
to call the loony bin. For instance, Fred Smith, founder of the
FedEx empire, traces the concept for his business to a term
paper he wrote at Yale, which supposedly received a C from
a skeptical professor. But that didn’t stop him from creating a
business logistics system that transformed the industry, and
along with UPS, enabled e-commerce to flourish.
Self-Reliance As an entrepreneur, the buck stops
with you. New business owners typically need to do everything themselves, from getting permits to motivating
CHAPTER 7: Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Economic Rocket Fuel

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

115

employees, to keeping the books—
result they’re sometimes willing
all in addition to producing the
to plunge into a new business, but
“A lot of times, people
product or service that made them
they don’t always have the skills to
don’t know what they
start the business in the first place.
succeed.7
want
until
you
show
it
Self-reliance seems to come with
Tolerance of Uncertainty
an internal locus of control,
to them.”
More often than others, entrepreor a deep-seated sense that the
—STEVE JOBS,
neurs see the world in shades of
individual is personally responsible
CO-FOUNDER, APPLE
gray rather than simply black and
for what happens in his or her life.
white. They tend to embrace unWhen things go well, people with
certainty in the business environan internal locus of control feel
ment, turning it to their advantage rather than shying
that their efforts have been validated, and when things
away. Uncertainty also relates to risk, and successful entrego poorly, those same people feel that they need to do
preneurs tend to more willingly accept risk—financial risk,
better next time. This sense of responsibility encourages
for instance, such as mortgaging their home for the busipositive action. In contrast, people with an external
ness, and professional risk, such as staking their reputation
locus of control rely less on their own efforts, feeling
on the success of an unproven product.
buffeted by forces such as random luck and the actions
of others, which they believe will ultimately control
Tolerance of Failure Even when they fail, entretheir fate.
preneurs seldom label themselves losers. They tend to
view failure as a chance to learn rather than as a sign
Energy Entrepreneurs simply can’t succeed without an
that they just can’t do it (whatever “it” may be for them
enormous amount of energy. Six or seven 12-hour workdays
at any given moment). Interestingly, Isaac Fleischmann,
are not atypical in the start-up phase of running a business.
director of the U.S. Patent Office for 36 years, pointed
In fact, 61% of small business owners report working six or
out: “During times of economic decline when unemmore days per week, compared to only 22% of workers in
ployment increases, so does the number of patents.
the general population. And for small business owners, even
Dark days often force us to become more ingenious, to
a day off isn’t really off. Only 27% of small business owners
monitor and modify the ways we reached failure and
define a day off as not working at all, while 57% of small
reshape them into a new pattern of success.” Failure can
business owners say they always or most of the time work
actually be an effective springboard for achievement.8
on holidays. But Discover Financial Services also learned that
A surprising number of twentieth-century entremany small business owners seem to find the grind worthpreneurial stars experienced significant failure in their
while: 47% of small business owners said that if they won
careers yet bounced back to create wildly successful
$10 million in the lottery, they would still work in their curventures. Early in his career, for instance, Walt Disney
rent job. Only 9% would stop working, and 8% would comwas fired from an ad agency (in hindsight, a rather foolbine work, volunteering, and other areas of interest.6
ish ad agency) for a ­“singular lack of drawing ability.”
Confidence Successful entrepreneurs typically have
Ray Kroc, the man who made McDonald’s into a fastconfidence in their own ability to achieve, and their confood empire, couldn’t make a go of real estate, so he
fidence encourages them to act boldly. But too much
sold milkshake machines for much of his life. He was
confidence has a downside. Entrepreneurs must take
52 years old, and in failing health, when he discovered
care not to confuse likelithe McDonald brothers’ hamburger stand and transhood with reality. In fact,
formed it into a fast-food empire. Steve Jobs, founder
many
could
benefit
from
of Apple computer, found himself unceremoniously
internal locus of
the
old
adage
“Hope
for
dumped by his board of directors less than ten years
control A deep-seated sense
that the individual is personally
the best and plan for the
after introducing the world’s first personal computer.
responsible for what happens in
worst.” A study for the
After another decade, he returned in triumph, restoring
his or her life.
Small Business AdminisApple’s polish with blockbuster new products such as
external locus of
tration Office of Advocacy
the iPod and the iPhone. And JK Rowling, creator of the
control A deep-seated
confirmed that entrepre$15 billion Harry Potter empire, had her initial book resense that forces other than the
neurs
are
typically
overjected by 12 shortsighted publishers. So next time you
individual are responsible for
confident
regarding
fail, keep your eyes open for opportunity—your failure
what happens in his or her life.
their own abilities. As a
may be the first step of the next big thing.9

116

PART TWO: Creating a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Big Lies about Entrepreneurship
and dream it. This ain’t for the weary or weak.”—Duncan
Kabinu, co-founder of Gainesville Dev Academy, a software
training center; and a judge for Get Started Gainesville 2016

There’s no shortage of advice about entrepreneurship in the
business world. However, that doesn’t mean that it’s all good
advice. Inc. magazine asked a handful of entrepreneurs and
experts to share the biggest whoppers they ever heard about
entrepreneurship. Here are some highlights:

▪▪ Do what you love and the money will follow. “No
words have ever created more failed entrepreneurs than
the notion that just because you love doing something,
it will be a successful business and you will make tons
of money. In fact, often times, a person’s love for doing
something becomes a problem because instead of
running their business, they just focus on delivering the
service they enjoy so much, as the business around them
crumbles.”—Topher Morrison, executive director of Key
Person of Influence, a growth accelerator that has worked
with more than 2,000 entrepreneurs

▪▪ All you need is a good idea. “An excellent idea is an
important first step, but your business will not take off as a
success unless you have a smart strategy and put passionate
effort behind it.”—Sherry Harnett, a marketing and leadership
consultant, professor, and a judge for Get Started Pensacola 2016

Ditty_about_summer/Shutterstock.com

▪▪ Being an entrepreneur is glamorous. “Being an
entrepreneur is harder than a 9–5 job. You must eat, sleep,

7-3

FINDING THE MONEY:
FUNDING OPTIONS FOR
SMALL BUSINESSES

For many entrepreneurs, finding the money to fund their
business is the top challenge of their start-up year. The
vast majority of new firms are funded with the personal
resources of their founder. In fact, about 95% of entrepreneurs raise start-up funds from personal accounts, family,
and friends. Other key funding sources include bank loans,
angel investors, and venture capital firms.11
7-3a  Personal Resources
While the idea of using just your own money to open
a business sounds great, and more than three-quarters
of small business owners spend their own savings as a

▪▪ Entrepreneurship is a young person’s game. Not
always. “Success is much more likely to find a mid-career
professional who has identified a market opportunity
through their own professional and life experience and
has the financial capital and network required to take
the risk, assemble the team, and network to advance a
new venture.”—Garret Westlake, executive director of the
da Vinci Center, a unique collegiate model that advances
innovation and entrepreneurship through cross-disciplinary
collaboration at Virginia Commonwealth University
So, as always, don’t believe everything you hear. A little extra
research may serve you well before you turn your dream into
reality.10

source of start-up funding,12 the financial requirements
of most new firms typically force entrepreneurs to also
tap personal resources such as family, friends, and credit
cards. ­According to Consumer Reports, 68% of total startup financing comes from personal resources.13 If you do
borrow from family or friends, virtually every small business expert recommends that you keep the relationship
as professional as possible. If the business fails, a professional agreement can preserve personal ties. And if the
business succeeds, you’ll need top-quality documentation of financing from family and friends to get largerscale backing from outside sources.
Personal credit cards can be an especially handy—
though highly risky—financing resource. In fact, a recent
survey found that nearly half of all start-ups are funded
with plastic. (It’s no wonder, given that those solicitations
just keep on coming.) Credit cards do provide fast, flexible
money, but watch out—if you don’t pay back your card
CHAPTER 7: Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Economic Rocket Fuel

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

117

If You Don’t Know Jack . . .
believes that businesspeople can accomplish what politicians
cannot. “When you put 200 companies in the same room trying
to realize something, it’s impossible but when you put 200
business people in one room, we might work something out.”14

In early 2017, Jack Ma met with President Trump and promised
that Alibaba would help create 1 million jobs in the United States
over five years. According to Ma, Alibaba will empower 1 million
small US businesses to sell their goods in China using Alibaba’s
various e-commerce platforms. Each business that sells on Alibaba
will hire one employee, resulting in the 1 million new jobs.
Ma is a powerful advocate—not just for Alibaba, but for
globalism and business in general. He refers to globalism as a
baby and says, “the baby is having growing pains. We should not
kill the baby because he cries a lot.” As to business in general, Ma

company fast, you’ll find yourself socked with financing
fees that can take years to pay off.15
7-3b  Loans
Getting commercial loans for a new venture can be tough.
Banks and other lenders are understandably hesitant to fund
a business that doesn’t have a track record. And when they
do, they require a lot of paperwork and often a fairly long
waiting period. Given these hurdles, only 20% of new business owners launch with commercial loans. Unfortunately,
small business lending fell 78% in the five years following
the Great Recession.16 And virtually no ­conventional lending
source—private or government—will lend 100% of the startup dollars for a new business. Most require that the entrepreneur provide a minimum of 25% to 30% of total start-up costs
from personal resources.17
Another source for loans may be the U.S. Small Business
Administration (SBA). The SBA doesn’t give free money to
start-up businesses—neither grants nor interest-free loans—
but it does partially guarantee loans from local commercial
lenders. This reduces risk for the lenders, who are, in turn, more
likely to lend money to a new business owner. The SBA also
has a microloan program
that lends small amounts
angel investors Individuals
of money—$13,000 on
who invest in start-up companies
average—to start-up busiwith high growth potential in
nesses through community
exchange for a share of ownership.
nonprofit organizations.18

118

Drew Angerer/Getty Images

. . . chances are that you will soon. Jack Ma, founder and chairman
of Alibaba group and one of China’s richest men, is quickly rising
to the forefront of the business world. Alibaba is a multifaceted
e-commerce behemoth that is somewhat similar to Amazon, yet
significantly more profitable. Although Alibaba carries enormous
heft within China, it remains mysterious to most non-Chinese,
because relatively few people outside China actually do business
with Alibaba. But Jack Ma aims to change that.

Peer-to-peer lending offers yet another potential
funding source for new business start-ups. Websites
such as Prosper.com and LendingClub.com bring together borrowers and investors so that both can benefit
financially. Many entrepreneurs have found this is an
easier way to get money, at more favorable terms, than
through more-established sources.
7-3c  Crowdfunding
Crowdfunding is the process of funding ventures by
raising money from a large number of investors via
the Internet. Crowdfunding began to appear in the
mid-2000s, and quickly gained traction, becoming a
nearly $35 billion funding source by 2016. Experts anticipate that global crowdfunding could grow to $96
billion by 2020.19 Many crowdfunding sites are used to
fund nonprofits. The largest crowdfunding sites in terms
of traffic are gofundme.com, kickstarter.com, and indiegogo.com. Two examples of big crowdfunding successes are (1) the Pebble smart watch, which raised $1
million in just 28 hours and eventually went on to raise
more than $10 million, and (2) the feature film Veronica
Mars, which raised $4.7 million.
7-3d  Angel Investors

Angel investors aren’t as saintly—or as flighty—as they
sound. They are wealthy individuals who invest in promising start-up companies for one basic reason: to make money

PART TWO: Creating a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Should You Protect Your Startup from Hackers?

alphaspirit/Shutterstock.com

Not if the hackers are growth hackers! Growth hacking
means using metrics, creative strategies, and state-of-the-art
technology to accelerate the growth of your brand, service,
or product far beyond the norm. Growth hackers know their
customers inside and out, including their pain points. Perhaps
more importantly, they also know which products and services
will alleviate that pain. Often, growth hackers create blogs and
other types of content that invite potential consumers to participate in conversations about the brand. And when people do
participate, the growth hackers assiduously collect and massage
the data, using it to generate leads, which they then transform
into powerful growth. Growth hackers also test, test, test. Which
works better—Strategy A or Strategy B? And after optimizing
that choice, they move on to the next crossroads, and growth
keeps booming. It’s no surprise then that growth hacking has
become a strategy of choice for new economic giants such as
Facebook, Twitter, and scores of others. Perhaps as you enter the
world of business, you should consider putting it work for you.20

for themselves. According to Jeffrey
an influential venture capitalist
Sohl, director of the Center for Venchanged their minds. He called
“Anything that’s really
ture Research, angels look for comthem into his office and said, “If you
awesome takes a lot
panies that seem likely to grow at
call this airline Taxi, we’re not going
of work.”
30% to 40% per year and will then
to invest.” The name changed, and
either be bought or go public. He
the venture capitalist stayed.22
—MARK ZUCKERBERG,
estimates that 10% to 15% of priFOUNDER, FACEBOOK
vate companies fit that description,
but points out that finding those
firms isn’t easy. It doesn’t help, he says, that “80% of entrepreneurs think they’re in that 10% to 15%.” In 2015, the angel
7-4
investor market experienced a slight increase in investment
dollars (+1.9%) and in deal size (+5.1%). Unfortunately, investment in new, first sequence investments was down 49% from
2014. “This decrease in new investments is a discouraging
sign for our nation’s start-ups,” said Sohl.21
Most small businesses enjoy a number of advantages as
they compete for customers. But they also must defuse a
range of daunting potential threats to succeed over the
7-3e  Venture Capital
long term.
Venture capital firms fund high-potential, new comventure capital firms
panies in exchange for a share of ownership, which can
Companies that invest in start-up
7-4a  Small Business
businesses with high growth
sometimes be as high as 60%. These deals tend to be
Opportunities
potential in exchange for a share
quite visible, but keep in mind that only a tiny fraction
of ownership.
of new businesses receive any venture capital money.
Small businesses enjoy a real
market niche A small
The advice and guidance that come with the dollars
competitive edge across a
segment of a market with fewer
can also be quite significant. David Barger, chief execurange of different areas. Becompetitors than the market as a
tive officer of jetBlue Airways, remembers that he and
cause of their size, many small
whole. Market niches tend to be
jetBlue’s founder, David Neeleman, originally planned to
firms can exploit narrow but
quite attractive to small firms.
call the airline Taxi and to fly bright yellow planes. But
profitable market niches,

OPPORTUNITIES
AND THREATS FOR SMALL
BUSINESS: A TWO-SIDED COIN

CHAPTER 7: Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Economic Rocket Fuel
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

119

Lower Overhead Costs With entrepreneurs wearing so many hats, from CEO to customer service rep,
many small firms have lower overhead costs. They can
hire fewer managers and fewer specialized employees.
Perhaps more importantly, smaller firms—due to a lack of
resources—tend to work around costs with tactics such
as establishing headquarters in the owner’s garage or
offering employees flexible schedules instead of costly
healthcare benefits.

Founded in 2015 by entrepreneur Sky
White, Wendigo Tea Co. offers imperialgrade loose-leaf teas named after
mythic beasts like Bigfoot and Nessy
(the Loch Ness Monster). Wendigo uses
branding and marketing strategies
modeled after the craft beer industry to
reach the market niche of young, hip tea
drinkers.

offer personal customer service, and maintain lower overhead costs. And due to advances in technology, small firms
can compete more effectively than ever in both global and
domestic markets.

Market Niches Many small firms are uniquely
positioned to exploit market niches. These sparsely
occupied spaces in the market tend to have fewer
competitors because they simply aren’t big enough—
or high-profile enough—for large firms. They nonetheless offer more than enough potential for small, specialized companies. For example, Kazoo & Company,
a relatively small toy store, competes effectively with
Walmart, Target, and Kmart by stocking different—and
complementary—products, deliberately zigging when
the big players zag.23
Personal Customer Service With a smaller
customer base, small firms can develop much more
personal relationships with individual customers. Shel
Weinstein, for instance, former owner of a Los Angeles
corner pharmacy, knew his customers so well that they
would call him at home in the middle of the night
for help with medical emergencies. The personal touch
can be especially beneficial in some foreign markets,
where clients prize the chance to deal directly with top
management.

120

Technology The Internet has played a powerful role
in opening new opportunities for small businesses. Using a wealth of online tools, from eBay to eMachineshop,
companies-of-one can create, sell, publish, and even
manufacture goods and services more easily than ever
before. The Internet has also created international opportunities, transforming small businesses into global
marketers. The London-based Anything Left-Handed
retail store, for instance, evolved into an award-winning
global wholesaler of left-handed items within a year of
launching its website. Founder Keith Milsom comments
that “our website has allowed us to communicate with
potential customers and market our business worldwide
at very little cost, making international development
possible.”24
7-4b  Small Business Threats
While small businesses do enjoy some advantages, they
also face intimidating obstacles, from a high risk of failure
to too much regulation.

High Risk of Failure Starting a new business involves risk—a lot of risk—but the odds improve significantly if you make it past the first five years. Check out the
ten-year survival rate in Exhibit 7.2. Notice that it declines
much more slowly in Years 7–10. Not surprisingly, new
research also shows that the five-year survival rate depends
fairly heavily on the industry, ranging from 51.3% at the high
end for manufacturing to 36.4% at the low end for construction, as illustrated in Exhibit 7.3. So clearly, it pays to choose
your industry carefully when you launch a new business.
Even though these numbers may look daunting, it’s
important to remember that owners shut down their
businesses for many reasons other than the failure of
the firm itself. The possibilities include poor health, divorce, better opportunities elsewhere, and interestingly,
an unwillingness to make the enormous time commitment of running a business. Small business expert David
Birch jokingly calls this last reason—which is remarkably
­common—the “I had no idea!” syndrome. It highlights
the importance of anticipating what you’re in for before
you open your doors.25

PART TWO: Creating a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Lack of Knowledge and Experience People typically launch businesses because they either have expertise
in a particular area—such as designing websites or cooking
Vietnamese food—or because they have a breakthrough
idea—such as a new way to develop computer chips or
run an airline. But in-depth knowledge in a specific area
doesn’t necessarily mean expertise in running a business.
Successful business owners must know everything from
finance to human resources, to marketing.
Too Little Money The media are filled with stories of
business owners who made it on a shoestring, but lack
of start-up money is a major issue for most new firms.
Ongoing profits don’t usually begin for a while, which means
that entrepreneurs must plan on some lean months—or
even years—as the business develops momentum. That
means a real need to manage money wisely and to resist
the temptation to invest in fixed assets, such as fancy offices
and advanced electronics, before sufficient regular income
warrants it. It also requires the nerve to stay the course despite initial losses.26

Bigger Regulatory Burden Complying with federal
regulations can be challenging for any business, but it can be
downright overwhelming for small firms. But relief may be on
the way: Congress continues to examine ways to reduce the
growing regulatory burden on small businesses—an urgent
need in the face of the struggling economy.27
Higher Health Insurance Costs Administrative
costs for small health plans are much higher than for
large businesses, making it even tougher for small firms

EXHIBIT 7.2 NEW BUSINESS SURVIVAL RATES
Year in
Business

Survival
Rate

Change vs. Prior Year
(percentage points)

Year 1

100.0%

—

Year 2

78%

222

Year 3

66%

212

Year 4

56%

210

Year 5

50%

26

Year 6

45%

25

Year 7

42%

23

Year 8

40%

22

Year 9

37%

23

Year 10

35%

22

Source: Entrepreneurship and the U.S. Economy, Bureau of Labor Statistics website, http://www.bls.gov
/bdm/entrepreneurship/bdm_chart3.htm, accessed May 18, 2016.

EXHIBIT 7.3 N EW BUSINESS 4-YEAR SURVIVAL
RATES BY INDUSTRY
Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate

58%

Education and Health

56%

Agriculture

56%

Services

55%

Wholesale

54%

Mining

51%

Manufacturing

49%

Construction

47%

Source: Here Are the Startup Failure Rates by Industry, by Kristin Pryor, January 12, 2016, Tech.co website, http://tech.co/startup-failure-rates-industry-2016-01, accessed May 18, 2016.

to offer coverage to their employees. Given skyrocketing
healthcare costs in general, the best employees are likely
to demand a great insurance plan, putting small business at a real disadvantage in terms of building a competitive workforce. But this may all change as Republicans
and Democrats struggle to enact their own versions of
healthcare reform. Currently, under the Affordable Care
Act, all but the very smallest businesses are required
to offer “affordable” health insurance to their full-time
employees. Navigating the complexities of constantly
changing legislation has been a significant challenge
for many small business owners. However, they may find
the whole ordeal worth it if they come out the other side
being able to offer their workers top-quality health
insurance at competitive rates.28

7-5

LAUNCH OPTIONS: REVIEWING
THE PROS AND CONS

When you imagine starting a new business, the first
thought that comes to mind would probably be the process of developing your own big idea from an abstract
concept to a thriving enterprise. But that’s not the only
option. In fact, it may make more sense to purchase an
established business, or even buy a franchise such as a
Pizza Hut or Subway restaurant. Each choice, of course,
involves pros and cons. The trick is finding the best fit
for you: the combination that offers you the least harmful downsides and the most meaningful upsides. Broadly
speaking, it’s less risky to buy an established business
or franchise, but it can be more satisfying to start from
scratch. Exhibit 7.4 offers a more detailed overview of the
pros and cons.
CHAPTER 7: Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Economic Rocket Fuel

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

121

EXHIBIT 7.4 P ROS AND CONS OF STARTING A BUSINESS FROM SCRATCH VERSUS BUYING
AN ESTABLISHED BUSINESS
Starting Your Business from Scratch
Key Pros

Key Cons

It’s all you: your concept, your decisions, your structure, and so on.

It’s all you. That’s a lot of pressure.

You don’t have to deal with the prior owner’s bad decisions.

It takes time, money, and sheer sweat equity to build a customer base.
Without a track record, it’s harder to get credit from both lenders and suppliers.
From securing permits to hiring employees, the logistics of starting a business
can be challenging.

Buying an Established Business
Key Pros

Key Cons

The concept, organizational structure, and operating practices are
already in place.

Working with someone else’s idea can be a lot less fun for some entrepreneurs.

Relationships with customers, suppliers, and other stakeholders are
established.

You may inherit old mistakes that can range from poor employee relations to
pending lawsuits.

Getting financing and credit is less challenging.

Buying a Franchise
Key Pros

Key Cons

In most cases, you’re buying your own piece of a well-known brand
and proven way of doing business.

You have less opportunity for creativity since most agreements tie you to
franchise requirements.

Typically, management expertise and consulting come with the
franchise package.

If something goes wrong with the national brand (e.g., E. coli at a burger joint),
your business will suffer, too.

Franchisers occasionally offer not just advice but also the financing
that can make the purchase possible.

The initial purchase price can be steep, and that doesn’t include the ongoing
percent-of-sales royalty fee.

These advantages add up to a very low 5% first-year failure rate.
Source: Five Reasons Why Franchises Flop, by Steve Strauss, February 28, 2005, USA Today Money website, http://www.usatoday.com/money/smallbusiness/columnist/strauss/2005-02-28-franchise_x.htm.

7-5a  Making It Happen: Tools

for Business Success

Whatever way you choose to become a small business
owner, several strategies can help you succeed over the long
term: gain experience in your field, learn from others, educate yourself, access Small Business Administration
(SBA) resources, and develop a business plan.

Gain Experience Getting roughly three years of
experience working for someone else in the field that
interests you is a good rule of thumb. That way, you
can learn what does and
doesn’t fly in your indusSmall Business
try with relatively low
Administration (SBA) An
personal risk (and you’d
agency of the federal government
designed to maintain and
be making any mistakes
strengthen the nation’s economy
on someone else’s dime).
by aiding, counseling, assisting,
You can also start develand protecting the interests of
oping a vibrant, relevant
small businesses.
network before you need

122

to ask for favors. But if you stay much longer than three
years, you may get too comfortable to take the plunge
and launch your own venture.

Learn from Others You should actively seek opportunities to learn from people who’ve succeeded in your
field. If you don’t know anyone personally, use your network to get introductions. And don’t forget industry associations, local events, and other opportunities to build
relationships. Also, remember that people who failed in your
field may be able to give you valuable insights (why make
the same mistakes they did?). As a bonus, they may be more
willing to share their ideas and their gaffes if they’re no longer struggling to develop a business of their own.

Educate Yourself The opportunities for entrepreneurial
learning have exploded in the past decade. Many colleges
and universities now offer full-blown entrepreneurship
programs that help students both develop their plans and
secure their initial funding. But education shouldn’t stop
there. Seek out relevant press articles, workshops, websites,

PART TWO: Creating a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Peshkova/Shutterstock.com

A business plan can help entrepreneurs
stay focused.

and blogs so that your ongoing education will continue to
boost your career.

Access SBA Resources The SBA offers a number of resources beyond money (which we’ll discuss in
the next section). The SBA website, www.sba.gov, provides a wealth of information from industry-specific
statistics, to general trends, to updates on small business regulations. The SBA also works hand in hand
with individual states to fund local Small Business
Development Centers (SBDCs). SBDCs provide a
range of free services for small businesses, from developing your concept to consulting on your business plan, to
helping with your loan applications. And the SBA supports
SCORE, the Service Corps of Retired Executives, at
www.score.org. They provide free, comprehensive counseling for small businesses from qualified volunteers.

Develop a Business Plan Can a business succeed
without a plan? Of course. Many do just fine by simply
seizing opportunity as it arises, and changing direction
as needed. Some achieve significant growth without a
plan. But a business plan does provide an invaluable
way to keep you and your team focused on success.
And it’s absolutely crucial for obtaining outside funding, which is why many entrepreneurs write a business
plan after they’ve used personal funding sources (such
as savings, credit cards, and money from family and
friends) to get themselves up and running. Even then,
the plan may be continually in flux if the industry is rapidly changing.
An effective business plan, which is usually 25 to 50 pages
long, takes about six months to write. While the specifics may

More than 30% of the richest people
in the world do not have a college
degree, but 57% of those who start
a business in high-income countries
do have a college degree.
—GLOBAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP MONITOR
AND FORBES

change by industry, the basic elements of any business plan
answer these core questions:
■■

 hat service or product does your business provide,
W
and what needs does it fill?

■■

 ho are the potential customers for your product or
W
service, and why will they purchase it from you?

■■

How will you reach your potential customers?

■■

Where will you get the financial resources to start your
business?

■■

When can you expect to achieve profitability?

The final document should include all of the following
information:
■■

Executive summary (two to three pages)

■■

Description of business (include both risks and
opportunities)

■■

Marketing

■■

Competition (don’t
underestimate the
challenge)

■■

Operating procedures

■■

Personnel

■■

Complete financial
data and plan,
including sources
of start-up money
(be realistic!)

■■

Appendix (be sure
to include all your
research on your
industry)29

Check out the SBA
business-planning
site
for more information on
how to write your own

Small Business
Development Centers
(SBDCs) Local offices—
affiliated with the Small Business
Administration—that provide
comprehensive management
assistance to current and
prospective small business owners.

SCORE (Service Corps of
Retired Executives) An
organization—affiliated with the
Small Business Administration—
that provides free, comprehensive
business counseling for small
business owners from qualified
volunteers.

business plan A formal
document that describes a
business concept, outlines core
business objectives, and details
strategies and timelines for
achieving those objectives.

CHAPTER 7: Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Economic Rocket Fuel
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

123

Accidental Inventions
Every new business begins with a great idea, but not all great ideas
begin with careful planning—a number of successful businesses
have been built on inventions that happened by accident. But
that doesn’t mean that you shouldn’t be prepared; first-century
philosopher Seneca said, “Luck is what happens when preparation
meets opportunity.” A sampling of “accidental inventions”:
▪▪ Microwave Ovens: When World War II scientist Percy
Spencer was inspecting a magnetron tube at a Raytheon lab,
he noticed that a candy bar in his pocket had melted, which
sparked the idea of using microwaves for cooking. Today,
more than 90% of households have microwave ovens.

business plan and for samples of actual business plans
(www.sba.gov/smallbusinessplanner/index.html). Other ex­
cellent resources (among many) on the Internet include
the sample business plan resource c­ enter (www.bplans.
com/) and the business plan pages of AllBusiness.com
(www.allbusiness.com/).

7-6

SMALL BUSINESS AND THE
ECONOMY: AN OUTSIZED IMPACT

The most successful entrepreneurs create goods and
services that change the way people live. Many build
blockbuster corporations that power the stock market
and dominate pop culture through ubiquitous promotion. But small businesses—despite their lower
profile—also play a vital role in the U.S. economy.
Here are a few statistics from the U.S. Small Business
Administration:
■■

Small businesses comprise 99.9% of all businesses in
the United States

■■

Small businesses account for 48% of all private sector
employees.

■■

Yet the opening of new businesses has accounted for
over 40% of net new jobs in the U.S. economy over the
past two decades.

The statistics, of course, depend on the definition of small
business. For research purposes, the SBA defines small
business as companies with up to 500 employees, including the self-employed. But the SBA also points out that
the meaning of small business differs across industries. To
officially count as “small,” the number of employees can

124

▪▪ Viagra: The pills failed to achieve their original goal, but
clinical trials did yield some startling secondary benefits,
which gave rise to a brand new multibillion-dollar business
for Pfizer.
▪▪ Post-it Notes: 3M scientist Spencer Silver developed
the repositionable adhesive for Post-it Notes. But they
didn’t become a product until his co-worker, Art Fry, was
looking for a sticky, reusable bookmark to replace the paper
bookmarks that kept slipping out of his church hymnal. Fry
proposed the product, which quickly became a worldwide
hit for 3M.30

range from fewer than 100 to 1,500, and the average revenue can range from $0.75 million to $28.5 million, depending on the type of business. But regardless of the specific
definition, the fact is clear: small business is a big player in
the U.S. economy.
Beyond the sheer value of the goods and services they
generate, small businesses make a powerful contribution
to the U.S. economy in terms of creating new jobs, fueling
innovation, and vitalizing inner cities.
■■

Creating New Jobs: Small businesses with employees
start up at a rate of about 600,000 per year. Five years
after they launch, about half of those businesses—and
many of the jobs they create—remain viable. But
while small businesses are quick to add new jobs,
they’re ­often the first to contract when times are
tough; ­instability comes with the territory.32

■

Fueling Innovation: Small businesses are much
more likely to develop revolutionary new ideas.
Small patenting firms produce about 16 times
more patents per employee than their large-firm
counterparts, and those patents are twice as likely
to be found among the top 1% of highest-impact
patents. Small firms tend to be effective innovators
for a number of reasons. Perhaps most importantly,
their very reason for being often ties to a brandnew idea. In the early years, they need innovation
to simply survive. And they often display a refreshing lack of bureaucracy that allows new thinking to
take hold.33

■

Vitalizing Inner Cities: Research shows that small
businesses are the backbone of urban economies,
finding opportunity in niches that may not be worthwhile for larger firms. Small business comprises more
than 99% of inner-city business establishments. In

PART TWO: Creating a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

addition to creating new jobs, these small businesses
generate 80% of total employment in American
inner cities, providing a springboard for economic
­development.34

EXHIBIT 7.5 E ARLY PHASE ENTREPRENEURSHIP
RATES 2015
Top Ten
Entrepreneurship Rates

Bottom Ten
Entrepreneurship Rates

7-6a  Entrepreneurship around the World

Country

Rate

Country

Rate

Research suggests that entrepreneurship has an economic impact in countries around the world. Societies
need entrepreneurs to ensure that new ideas actualize
and to ensure that people are able to self-employ when
their economy does not provide for their basic needs. For
the past 15 years, the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor
(GEM) has measured the annual rate of new business startups across a range of countries across the globe. The
15th annual GEM study included 70 countries. According
to GEM, the most effective way to evaluate entrepreneurship levels is by phase. A country’s total early-phase
entrepreneurship rate includes the percentage of adults
who have been running their own business from three
months to 3.5 years. The current entrepreneurship rate
varies dramatically from country to country, ranging from
a high of 39.9% in Nigeria and Zambia to a low of 3.4% in
Italy, Russia, and Japan. (See Exhibit 7.5 for the ten nations with the highest and lowest entrepreneurship rates.)
The differences among countries seem to depend largely
on several key factors: What is the national per capita
income? What will the entrepreneur need to give up
(i.e., the opportunity costs)? How high is the risk of
failure? How strongly do the national culture and political
environment support business start-ups?

Senegal

38.6%

Malaysia

2.9%

Ecuador

33.6%

Bulgaria

3.5%

Botswana

33.2%

Morocco

4.4%

Lebanon

30.1%

Germany

4.7%

Burkina Faso

29.8%

Italy

4.9%

Chile

25.9%

Norway/Spain (tie)

5.7%

Cameroon

25.4%

Slovenia

5.9%

Colombia

22.7%

Macedonia

6.1%

Peru

22.2%

Belgium

6.2%

Barbados/Brazil (tie)

21.0%

Finland

6.6%

Source: Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2015/16 Global Report, by Donna Kelley, Slavica Singer, and Mike
Herrington, 2016, Global Consortium website, http://www.gemconsortium.org/report, accessed May 18, 2016.

Cultural/Political Environment Extensive, complex regulations can hinder entrepreneurship by raising
daunting barriers. And a lack of cultural support only
compounds the problem. These factors certainly contribute to the relatively low entrepreneurship rates in
much of the European Union and Japan. Entrepreneurs
in more supportive nations such as the United States
and New Zealand get a boost from limited regulation
and strong governmental support. A thriving “cowboy
culture” helps, too—standout individuals who break
free of old ways attract attention
and admiration in many of the
countries with higher entrepreneurship rates.35

Opportunity Costs Entrepreneurship rates are significantly lower in countries that provide a high level of
employment protection (it’s hard to get fired) and strong
unemployment insurance (financial support if you do get
fired). With these benefits in place, the sense of urgency
regarding entrepreneurship tends to fall, in part because
fear of failure is much lower. The European Union provides
a number of clear examples.

violetkaipa/Shutterstock.com

Per Capita Income In lower-income countries,
such as China and Chile, a high percentage of entrepreneurs start their own businesses because they simply
have no other options. This contributes heavily to the
startlingly high overall level of entrepreneurship. The rate
of such “necessity entrepreneurship” declines in higherincome countries, such as the United States and Japan,
where entrepreneurs are more likely to strike out on their
own in response to an opportunity that they spot in the
marketplace.

CHAPTER 7: Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Economic Rocket Fuel
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

125

THE BIG PICTURE
Successful entrepreneurs need more than
simply a great idea. Bringing that idea
to market—and earning a profit in the process—requires
deep knowledge of every area of business. Finding money,
attracting customers, and absorbing risk are only some of the
challenges. But for the right person, the payoff can be huge
in terms of everything from financial success to scheduling
flexibility. The key is finding something you love to do that

offers value to others. While that doesn’t guarantee success,
building on a passion suggests that you’ll at least enjoy the
journey. Looking forward from the global economic crisis,
entrepreneurship seems likely to become a way of life, either
part-time or full-time, for a growing swath of the population.
The ideal result would be a higher standard of living—and
a higher quality of life—for business owners and their
customers worldwide.

CAREERS IN ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Clothing Company Founder
Design unique items that appeal to young people via
innovative styles, attention-grabbing slogans, and
distinctive fabrics. Build relationships with business

STUDY TOOLS

funders. Oversee suppliers to ensure timely order delivery
and ethical manufacturing practices. Build solid base of
retail accounts. Develop a creative social media marketing
campaign to boost sales. Meet profitability goals every
quarter.

7

LOCATED AT BACK OF THE TEXTBOOK
■■

Rip-Out Chapter Review Card

■■

Gain unique perspectives on key concepts with new concept
videos in the e-book
Increase your comprehension with online homework and
quizzes

■■

126

■■

Study with existing flashcards and make your own

PART TWO: Creating a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

8

Accounting:

Decision Making by the Numbers

LEARNING OBJECTIVES
After studying this chapter, you will be able to:
8-1 Define accounting and describe how accounting information is used by a variety of stakeholders

PAGE 146

8-3 Describe the key elements of the major financial statements
8-4 Describe several methods stakeholders can use to obtain useful insights from a company’s

financial statements
8-5

Remember to visit

Explain how the budget process can help managers plan, motivate, and evaluate their
organization’s performance

for additional

STUDY TOOLS

8-6 Explain the role of managerial accounting and describe the various cost concepts identified by

managerial accountants

8-1

ACCOUNTING: WHO NEEDS IT—AND WHO DOES IT?

Accounting is a system for recognizing, organizing, analyzing, and
reporting information about the financial transactions that affect an
organization. The goal of this system is to provide its users with relevant,
timely information that helps them make better economic decisions.
Who uses the information that accounting provides? It’s a
long list; after all, everyone wants to make good decisions!
In fact, a variety of business stakeholders rely so heavily on
accounting information that it’s sometimes called the “language of business.”
8-1a  Accounting: Who Uses It?
accounting A system for
recognizing, organizing, analyzing,
and reporting information about
the financial transactions that
affect an organization.

128

Key users of accounting information include:
■ Managers: Marketing

managers, for instance,
need information

			 about sales in various regions and for various product
lines. Financial managers need up-to-date facts about
debt, cash, inventory, and capital.
■

Stockholders: As owners of the company, most stockholders have a keen interest in its financial performance,
especially as indicated by the firm’s financial statements.
Has management generated a strong-enough return
on their investment? For instance, Ireland-based generic
drug manufacturer Perrigo reported $1.09 billion in what
it called “adjusted profit,” while also reporting a net loss
(using standard accounting procedures) of $33 million.
Which number should stockholders believe?1

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Uber
Monkey
Images/Shutterstock.com
Business Images/Shutterstock

8-2 Identify the purposes and goals of generally accepted accounting principles

■

Employees: Strong financial performance would
help employees make their case for nice pay raises
and hefty bonuses. But if earnings drop—­especially
multiple times—layoffs might be in the offing,
so many employees might decide to polish their
­résumés!

■■

Creditors: The late, great comedian Bob Hope
once defined a bank as a place that would only lend
you money if you could prove you didn’t really need
it. That’s a bit of an exaggeration, but it is true that
before granting a loan, responsible bankers and
other lenders want to assess a firm’s creditworthiness
by looking at its financial statements.

■■

Suppliers: Like bankers, companies that provide supplies want to know that the company can pay for the
orders it places.

■■

Government agencies: Accurate accounting information is critical for meeting the reporting requirements
of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC), and other federal
and state agencies.

“The pen is mightier than the
sword, but no match for the
accountant.”
— J O N A T H A N G L A N C E Y,
BRITISH JOURNALIST
A number of other groups—including the news media,
competitors, and unions—might also have a real interest in
a firm’s accounting information—whether the firm wants
them to have it or not! If you have any interest in managing,
investing in, or working for a business, the ability to understand accounting information is extremely valuable.
8-1b  Accounting: Who Does It?
Accountants work in a variety of positions to provide all of
this information. Let’s take a quick look at some of the roles
accountants play:
■■

Public accountants provide services such as
tax preparation, external auditing (a process we’ll
describe later in this chapter), and management
consulting to clients on a fee basis.
CHAPTER 8: Accounting: Decision Making by the Numbers

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

129

■■

Management accountants work within a company
and provide analysis, prepare reports and financial
statements, and assist managers in their own organization. Internal auditors also work within their organizations to detect internal problems such as waste,
mismanagement, embezzlement, and employee theft.

■■

Government accountants perform a variety
of accounting functions for local, state, or federal
government agencies. Some ensure that the government’s own tax revenues and expenditures are
recorded and reported in accordance with regulations
and requirements. Others work for the IRS to audit tax
returns or for other government agencies, such as the
SEC or FDIC, to help ensure that our nation’s banks and
other financial institutions comply with the rules and
regulations governing their behavior.

Many jobs performed by accountants require expertise
in complex subject areas. For this reason, accountants who
want to move up in their profession often seek certification
in a particular field. But achieving such recognition isn’t easy.
For example, in order to be recognized as a certified public
accountant in most states, a candidate must complete the
equivalent of 150 semester hours (five years) of college
education with a heavy emphasis in accounting and other
business-related courses; must pass a rigorous two-day, fourpart exam (very few candidates pass all four parts on their
first try); and must complete at least one year of direct work
experience in the field of accounting. Individuals seeking to
become certified management accountants or certified fraud
examiners must satisfy similarly challenging requirements.

8-2

often want to know how a firm’s financial condition has
changed over a period of several years, or to compare its
results to those of other firms in the same industry. The major output of financial accounting is a set of financial statements designed to provide this broad type of information.
We’ll describe these statements in the next section.
8-2a  Role of the Financial Standards

Accounting Board

Imagine how confused and frustrated investors, creditors,
and regulators would become if every firm could make
its own financial accounting rules as it went along and
change them whenever it wanted! To reduce confusion
and provide external stakeholders with consistent and
accurate financial statements, the accounting profession
has adopted a set of generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP) that guide the practice of financial
accounting. In the United States, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has the ultimate legal authority to set and enforce accounting standards. In practice,
however, the SEC has delegated the responsibility for
developing these rules to a private organization known

“If my father had hugged me
even once, I’d be an accountant
right now.”
— R AY R O M A N O , C O M E D I A N

FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING:
INTENDED FOR THOSE ON THE
OUTSIDE LOOKING IN

addresses the needs of external stakeholders, including
stockholders, creditors, and
government
regulators.
financial accounting The
These
stakeholders
are selbranch of accounting that prepares
financial statements for use by
dom interested in poring
owners, creditors, suppliers, and
over detailed accounting
other external stakeholders.
information about the ingenerally accepted
dividual departments or
accounting principles
divisions within a company.
(GAAP) A set of accounting
Instead, they’re interested in
standards that is used in the
the financial performance
preparation of financial statements.
of the firm as a whole. They

130

Rawpixel/Shutterstock.com

Financial accounting is the branch of accounting that

A variety of business stakeholders,
managers, stockholders, employees,
creditors, suppliers, and government
agencies use accounting information.

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Pfizer: Corporate Inverter or Profit Maximizer?
With a market cap of $188 billion, more than $169 billion in
assets, and a 2015 after-tax income of $6.97 billion, Pfizer is
one of the largest pharmaceutical corporations in the world. By
contrast, Allergan has a market cap of $110 billion, $136 billion
in assets, and a 2015 after-tax loss of $874. Allergan is by all
measures a massive company, but it’s roughly two-thirds to half
the size of Pfizer and nowhere near as profitable. In November
2015, Pfizer and Allergan announced a plan to merge so that
Pfizer could move its registered domicile headquarters—the
location that determines the corporation’s primary laws and
tax regulations—from New York to Allergan’s home in Dublin,
Ireland. Why would Pfizer want to make such a move?

coming under direct fire from the Obama administration, Pfizer
walked away from the deal. The failed merger with Allergan
marked Pfizer’s second attempt in as many years to merge with
a large foreign pharmaceutical company. In 2014, the company
attempted to take over London-based AstraZeneca for nearly
$118 billion, but that deal fell through as well. Pfizer has since
scaled back its aggressive acquisition strategy, announcing
plans in May 2016 to purchase California-based Anacor
Pharmaceuticals for a mere $5.2 billion. Have we seen the last
of Pfizer’s attempts at tax inversion by purchasing an overseas
competitor? Time will tell.2

pio3/Shutterstock.com

Currently, all of Pfizer’s earnings are subject to the United States’
35% corporate tax rate. This rate is not only one of the highest in
the world, it applies to all global earnings in addition to income
earned in the United States. (Most other countries only tax domestic
income.) Pfizer also pays a New York State corporate tax rate of 7.1%,
bringing its total corporate tax rate to 42.1%—well above the 23.4%
global tax rate it pays around the world and almost four times the
Irish corporate tax rate of 12.5%. By reincorporating its headquarters
to Ireland, it’s estimated that Pfizer could reduce its overall global tax
rate from 23.4% to 17% and save an estimated $2.1 billion a year.
U.S. lawmakers criticized Pfizer’s attempt at a tax inversion
(reincorporating to a country with a lower tax rate), and after

as the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB). This board consists of seven members appointed

track the firm’s financial performance over a period of
years and compare its results with those for other firms.

by the Financial Accounting Foundation. Each member
serves a five-year term and can be reappointed to serve
one additional term. In order to preserve independence
and impartiality, the members are required to sever all ties
with any firms or institutions they served prior to joining
the board.
Through GAAP, the FASB aims to ensure that financial
statements are:

How well do companies adhere to GAAP practices?
In 2015, only 5.7% of S&P 500 companies strictly reported
GAAP-based results, down significantly from 25% in 2006.
The remaining 94.3% of companies reported what’s called
“adjusted” or non-GAAP accounting in addition to their
GAAP-based results. Fitbit’s CFO Bill Zerella says, “I think
non-GAAP [accounting results] can be valuable for investors, as long as it’s not abused by management.”3 The problem with non-GAAP accounting is that the numbers may
not be relevant, reliable, consistent, or comparable. Andrew
Clarke, CFO of logistics company C.H. Robinson Worldwide,
explains, “What one company says is adjusted might be different to what another company says is adjusted. . . . It lends
itself to inconsistency. We believe in providing [stockholders] with a [GAAP-based] clean number as to how we perform so that they can make
an informed decision.”4 For
Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB)
more on non-GAAP acThe
private board that establishes
counting, see “Profitable?
the generally accepted
Sure—As Long as You Don’t
accounting principles used in the
Look at the GAAP!” later in
practice of financial accounting.
this chapter.

■■

Relevant: They must contain information that helps
the user understand the firm’s financial performance
and condition.

■■

Reliable: They must provide information that is objective, accurate, and verifiable.

■■

Consistent: They must provide financial statements
based on the same core assumptions and procedures over time; if a firm introduces any significant
changes in how it prepares its financial statements,
GAAP requires it to clearly identify and describe
these changes.

■■

Comparable: They must present accounting statements
in a reasonably standardized way, allowing users to

CHAPTER 8: Accounting: Decision Making by the Numbers
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

131

8-2b  Ethics in Accounting
Even clear and well-established accounting principles won’t
result in accurate and reliable information if managers and
accountants don’t use them. Caterpillar, $580 million; Waste
Management, $1.5 billion; Olympus, $1.7 billion; HealthSouth,
$2.7 billion; Autonomy, a software company purchased
by Hewlett-Packard, $8.8 billion; and the ­biggest of them
all, WorldCom, $11 billion, are all unfortunate examples of
exorbitant accounting fraud where debts were hidden or
earnings overstated by a half a billion to $11 billion or more.
Once their accounting improprieties became known, most
of these firms suffered severe financial ­difficulties.5
These scandals served as a wake-up call to the accounting profession that their ethical training and standards needed major improvement. In the wake of the
scandals, many state accounting boards passed new ethics-related requirements.

8-3

■

8-3a  The Balance Sheet: What We Own

and How We Got It

balance sheet A financial
statement that reports the
financial position of a firm
by identifying and reporting
the value of the firm’s assets,
liabilities, and owners’ equity.

accounting equation
Assets = Liabilities + Owners’
Equity

assets Resources owned by
a firm.

liabilities Claims that outsiders
have against a firm’s assets.

The balance sheet summarizes a firm’s financial position at a specific point in
time. Though the balance
sheets of different firms
vary in specifics, all of them
are organized to reflect
the most famous equation in all of accounting—
so famous that it is usually
referred to simply as the
accounting equation:
Assets 5 Liabilities 1
Owners’ Equity

Assets are things of value that the firm owns. Balance
sheets usually classify assets into at least two major categories. The first category, called current assets, consists
of cash, $1.223 billion, and other assets that the firm
expects to use up or convert into cash within a year. For
example, in M
­ cDonald’s balance sheet, the value for
accounts receivable, $1.474 billion, refers to money owed
to ­McDonald’s by franchise restaurants who bought
its goods on credit. (These receivables are converted
into cash when the franchise restaurants pay their bills.)
Inventory, also a current asset, represents the $58.9 million
of burgers, fries, and other foods and ingredients used
in McDonald’s restaurants. If this strikes you as not very
much, you’re right. It isn’t, because McDonald’s never
has more than three to four days of inventory on hand in
its restaurants. McDonald’s has $565.2 million of prepaid
expenses, such as insurance, or prepaid advertising, that
have been paid before they are due.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:
READ ALL ABOUT US

One of the major responsibilities of financial accounting
is the preparation of three basic financial statements: the
balance sheet, income statement, and statement of cash
flows. Taken together, these financial statements provide
external stakeholders with a broad picture of an organization’s financial condition and its recent financial performance. Large corporations with publicly traded stock must
provide an annual report containing all three statements
to all stockholders. They also must file quarterly and annual
reports, including financial statements, with the SEC. Let’s
take a look at the information each statement provides.

132

Exhibit 8.1 shows a simplified balance sheet for
­ cDonald’s Corporation, which we’ll use to illustrate the
M
information provided by financial statements. Notice that
the three major sectors of this statement reflect the key
terms in the accounting equation. Once we’ve defined each
of these terms, we’ll explain the logic behind the accounting
equation and how the balance sheet illustrates this logic.

The other major category of assets on McDonald’s
balance sheets is Property, plant, and equipment. It lists the
value, in this case $34.443 billion, of the company’s land,
buildings, machinery, equipment, and other long-term
assets. With the exception of land, these assets have a limited
useful life, so accountants subtract accumulated depreciation, $13.185 ­billion, from the original value of these assets, to
reflect the fact that these assets are being used up over time.
Though not shown here, some companies list a third
category of assets, called intangible assets. These are assets
that have no physical existence—you can’t see or touch
them—but they still have value. Examples include patents,
copyrights, trademarks, and even the goodwill a company
develops with its stakeholders. McDonald’s trademarks, such
as Ronald McDonald and the golden arches, clearly have tremendous value to the company.
■■

Liabilities indicate what the firm owes to
nonowners—in other words, the claims nonowners
have against the firm’s assets. Balance sheets usually
organize liabilities into two broad categories: current
liabilities and long-term liabilities. Current liabilities,
totaling $2.448 billion for McDonald’s, are debts that
come due within a year of the date on the balance
sheet. McDonald’s has, for example, $756 million in
accounts payable, that is, how much it owes suppliers

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Exhibit 8.1

The Balance Sheet for McDonald’s Corporation
McDonald’s Corp.
Balance Sheet
December 31, 2016
Assets
(Resources owned
by the firm)

Equals

Liabilities
(What the firm
owes to outsiders)

Plus

Owners’
(or Stockholders’)
Equity
(The claims owners
have on their firm’s
assets)

ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash
$1,223,400,000.00
Accounts receivable
$1,474,100,000.00
Inventory
$58,900,000.00
Prepaid expenses
$565,200,000.00
Total current assets
$3,321,600,000.00
Property, plant, and equipment
$34,443,400,000.00
Less: Accumulated depreciation
2 $13,185,800,000.00
Net plant, property, and equipment
$21,257,600,000.00
Other long-term assets
$6,444,700,000.00
Total plant, property, and equipment
$27,702,300,000.00
Total Assets
$31,023,900,000.00
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable
Wages payable
Taxes
Total current liabilities
Long-term Liabilities
Long-term loans
Other long-term liabilities
Total Liabilities

$756,000,000.00
$1,159,300,000.00
$533,500,000.00
$2,448,800,000.00
25,878,500,000.00
$4,900,900,000.00
$33,228,200,000.00

STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Common Equity
Common stock
Retained earnings
Total Stockholders’ Equity

$16,600,000.00
$(2,220,900,000.00)
$(2,204,300,000.00)

The balance sheet
“balances,”
reflecting the
equality expressed
in the accounting
equation.

(Retained earnings
less treasury stock)

Total Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity $31,023,900,000.00

Adapted from “McDonald’s Corporation, Form 10-K," U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/63908/000006390817000017
/mcd-12312016x10k.htm, accessed July 10, 2017. Because the accounting information found in the annual report is much more detailed than presented here, some of the
accounting numbers in this balance sheet will differ from similar numbers shown in McDonald’s balance sheets in the 10-K\ for the same time period.

■■

on credit. Wages payable, $1.159 billion for McDonald’s,
what the firm owes to workers for work they have
already performed, is another current liability, as are
taxes, which amount to $533.5 million for McDonald’s.
Long-term liabilities are debts that don’t come due until
more than a year after the date on the balance sheet.
McDonald’s has $25.878 billion in long-term loans and
$4.9 billion in other long-term liabilities.
Owners’ (or Stockholders’) equity refers to
the claims the owners have against their firm’s assets.
The specific accounts listed in the owners’ equity
section of a balance sheet depend on the form of
business ownership. As Exhibit 8.1 shows, common
stock is a key owners’ equity account for corporations.
For corporations like McDonald’s, the owners’ equity
section is usually titled stockholders’ equity. Also notice
that retained earnings, which are the accumulated

earnings reinvested in the company (rather than paid
to owners), are another major components of the
owners’ equity section. McDonald’s has $16.6 million in
common stock and negative $2.220 billion in retained
earnings, which are typically put back into growing the
company. In 2016, however, McDonald's incurred a
$2.2 billion deficit in total stockholders' equity by virtue
of a stock buy back of more than $11 billion (explained in
the discussion of Exhibit 8.3 on McDonald's cash flows).
Buying stock back from shareholders is another way,
besides stock dividends
(See Chapter 9), of
owners’ equity The claims
returning earnings to
a firm’s owners have against their
shareholders. The large
company’s assets (often called
stock buy back, which
“stockholders’ equity” on balance
was a strategic goal for
sheets of corporations).
the company, reduced
CHAPTER 8: Accounting: Decision Making by the Numbers

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

133

Profitable? Sure—As Long as You
Don’t Look at the GAAP!
While the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is legally
responsible for enforcing accounting standards, in practice, the
SEC relies on the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) to
clarify and modify generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)
as new business practices and/or issues arise. GAAP exist so that
financial statements are always relevant, reliable, consistent, and
comparable, thus ensuring that managers and investors can track a
firm’s financial performance over time and accurately compare one
firm’s financial results to those of another.

SFIO CRACHO/Shutterstock.com

Non-GAAP accounting is legal as long as both non-GAAP and
GAAP results are reported. Many companies push things too far,

retained earnings by $11 billion, and flipped retained
earnings from positive to negative.
The logic behind the accounting equation is based on the
fact that firms must finance the purchase of their assets, and
owners and nonowners are the only two sources of funding.
The accounting equation tells us that the value of a firm’s assets must equal the amount of financing provided by owners
(as measured by owners’ equity) plus the amount provided
by creditors (as indicated by
the firm’s liabilities) to purincome statement The
chase those assets. Because
financial statement that reports
a balance sheet is based on
the revenues, expenses, and net
income that resulted from a firm’s
this logic, it must always be in
operations over an accounting
balance. In other words, the
period.
dollar value of the assets must
revenue Increases in a firm’s
equal the dollar value of the
assets that result from the sale of
liabilities plus owners’ equity.
goods, provision of services, or
This is true for all firms, from the
other activities intended to earn
smallest sole proprietorship
income.
to the largest multinational

134

however, highlighting favorable non-GAAP results in earnings
announcements and discussions with Wall Street analysts while
ignoring more modest, but reliable, GAAP results. Even worse,
companies increasingly treat standard expenses as non-GAAP
items, which they then exclude to boost non-GAAP profits.
Twitter and Salesforce.com are two companies that routinely
treat executive stock compensation as a non-GAAP expense.
For Twitter, not counting executive compensation was the
difference between a $276 million non-GAAP profit and a
$521 million GAAP loss. Salesforce.com, which sells customer
management software and services, used the same approach
to turn a $146 million GAAP loss into a $574 million non-GAAP
profit. On average at profitable companies, adjusted, non-GAAP
accounting profits are 44% higher than GAAP-based results.
But at unprofitable companies reporting net losses, non-GAAP
accounting results are 70% higher than GAAP-based results,
often making losses look like profits!
Billionaire investor Warren Buffett often criticizes such tactics,
saying, “The very name says it all: ‘compensation.’ If compensation isn’t an expense, what is it? And, if real and recurring
expenses don’t belong in the calculation of earnings, where
in the world do they belong?” Don’t be fooled by non-GAAP
results. Compare apples to apples, oranges to oranges, and
GAAP financials to GAAP financials.6

corporation. Notice in Exhibit 8.1 that the $31.023 billion
in total assets listed on McDonald’s balance sheet matches the
$31.023 billion in liabilities plus owners’ equity.
8-3b  The Income Statement:

So, How Did We Do?

The income statement summarizes the financial results
of a firm’s operations over a given period of time. The figure
that attracts the most attention on the income statement is
net income, which measures the company’s profit or loss.
In fact, another name for the income statement is the profit
and loss statement (or, informally, the P&L). Just as with the
balance sheet, we can use a simple equation to illustrate the
logic behind the organization of the income statement:
Revenue – Expenses = Net Income
In this equation:
■■

Revenue represents the increase in the amount of
cash and other assets (such as accounts receivable)

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Does Apple Really Owe the European Union
$14.5 Billion in Unpaid Taxes?
Does Apple, the world’s most profitable company, owe Ireland
$14.5 billion in unpaid taxes? The European Union (EU), of which
Ireland is a member, says that it does. Apple and Ireland say it
doesn’t. Let’s examine the issue.

spokesperson for Ireland’s Revenue Commission said, “It is
emphatically the case that there was no departure from the
applicable Irish tax law by Revenue. . . . and that full tax due was
paid in accordance with the law.”

Did Ireland give Apple special treatment? Apple established a factory
in Cork, Ireland, in 1980. The EU said Ireland gave Apple special
tax incentives then and several more times. Apple responded,
“We never asked for, nor did we receive any special deals.” But if
Apple had asked for lower taxes, would that have been illegal or
unethical? In most countries, no. But in the EU, tax incentives are
forbidden if they help companies gain advantage over competitors.

Who determines the tax rate—Ireland or the EU? Irish Finance
Minister Michael Noonan said Ireland would join Apple in
appealing the ruling, “to defend the integrity of our tax system.”
Enda Kenny, Ireland’s prime minister said, “I regard this matter as
questioning Ireland’s right as a sovereign nation to set out policies
that are appropriate for Ireland.” Apple argued that the EU is “effectively proposing to replace Irish tax laws with a view of what the
[European] Commission thinks the law should have been.”

Were Apple’s taxes too low? At 12.5%, Ireland has one of the lowest
corporate income tax rates in Europe. With standard tax deductions,
the effective tax rate is 10.8%. But according to the EU, Apple’s
effective tax rate since 2003 was 0.005% to 1%. An Irish Department
of Finance study, published two years before the EU ruling, showed
that similar to Apple, other U.S.-owned, Irish-incorporated companies
paid effective tax rates between 2.2% and 3.2%.
Did Apple or Ireland do anything illegal? Apple CEO Tim Cook
said about the issue, “[W]e received guidance from Irish tax
authorities on how to comply correctly with Irish tax law. . . .
Apple follows the law and we pay all of the taxes we owe.” A

the firm earns in a given time period as the result of its
business activities. For example, Exhibit 8.2 shows
that McDonald’s has $24.621 billion in revenues, with
$15.295 billion coming from company-owned restaurants and $9.326 billion coming from franchised restaurants. With the goal of franchising 95% of it stores by
2019, revenues will shift significantly toward franchised
restaurants in the near future. McDonald’s has already
sold 1,000 company-owned restaurants to franchises,
and is now in the process of selling a significant part of
its company-owned stores to franchises in Japan, China,
and South Korea.8 A firm normally earns revenue by
selling goods or by charging fees for services (or both).
Accountants use accrual-basis accounting when
recognizing revenues. Under the accrual approach,
revenues are recorded when they are earned, and
payment is reasonably assured. It’s important to realize
that this is not always when the firm receives cash from
its sales. For example, if a firm sells goods on credit, it
reports revenue before it receives cash. (The revenue
would show up initially as an increase in accounts
receivable rather than as an increase in cash.)

Can Apple’s tax rate be changed retroactively? According to the
U.S. Treasury Department, “retroactive tax assessments by the
[EU] commission are unfair, contrary to well-established legal
principles, and call into question the tax rules of individual [EU]
Member States.” Ireland’s Michael Noonan said, “Do you think it
would be fair that if you did something in 2003 that was not a
crime and it was made a crime in 2012, do you think it should be
fair you should be arrested for it now and penalized?”
Would you rule for Apple and Ireland? Or for the EU? You don’t
have to be an accountant to understand the issues at play.7

■■

Expenses indicate the cash a firm spends, or other
assets it uses up, to carry out the business activities
necessary to generate its revenue. Under accrual-basis
accounting, expenses aren’t necessarily recorded when
cash is paid. Instead, expenses are matched to the
revenue they help generate. The specific titles given to
the costs and expenses listed on an income statement
vary among firms—as do the details provided. But
the general approach remains the same: costs are
deducted from revenue in several stages to show how
net income is determined. The first step in this process is to deduct costs of goods sold, $12.698 billion for
McDonald’s, which are
costs directly related to
accrual-basis accounting
buying, manufacturThe method of accounting that
ing, or providing the
recognizes revenue when it is
goods and services the
earned and matches expenses to
company sells. (Manuthe revenues they helped produce.
facturing companies
expenses Resources that are
often use the term cost
used up as the result of business
of goods manufactured
operations.
for these costs.) The
CHAPTER 8: Accounting: Decision Making by the Numbers

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

135

Exhibit 8.2

Income Statement for McDonald’s
McDonald’s Corp.
Income Statement
December 31, 2016

Revenue:
(What the firm earns)

Minus

Costs and Expenses
(Cash spent and other
resources used up)

Equals

Sale Revenue
Sales
C
Company-operated
restaurants
F
Franchised
restaurants
Total revenue
Cost of goods sold
Gros Profit
Gross
Ope
erat
Operating
Expenses
Fran
F
n
Franchised
restaurants, occupancy expenses
Selliin & administrative expenses
S
Selling
Tota
al Operating
O
Total
Expenses

$15,295,000,000.00
$9,326,900,000.00
$24,621,900,000.00
$12,698,800,000.00
$11,923,100,000.00
$1,718,400,000.00
$2,460,200,000.00
$4,178,600,000.00
$7,744,500,000.00
$878,500,000.00
$6,866,000,000.00
$2,179,500,000.00
$4,686,500,000.00

Op
p
Net Operating
Income
Inter
Interest
expense
Taxablle Income
Taxable
Taxe
Ta
e
Taxes
Inc
Net Income

Net Income
(Profit if positive or loss
if negative)

Adapted from “McDonald’s Corporation, Form 10-K,” U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar
/data/63908/000006390817000017/mcd-12312016x10k.htm, accessed July 10, 2017.

difference between the firm’s revenue and its cost of
goods sold is its gross profit, which was $11.923 billion
for McDonald’s. The next step is to deduct operating
expenses, totaling $4.178 billion for McDonald’s, from
gross profit. Operating expenses are costs the firm
incurs in the regular operation of its business. Most income statements divide operating expenses into selling
expenses (such as salaries and commissions to salespeople and advertising expenses) and general (or administrative) expenses (such as rent, insurance, utilities, and
office supplies). McDonald’s, however, typically owns
the land and the building of franchised restaurants. So,
it has another large, but specialized operating expense
of $1.718 billion to pay for franchised restaurants’
occupancy expenses. The difference between gross
profit and operating expenses is net operating income,
which is $7.744 billion for
McDonald’s. Finally, interest
net income The difference
expenses and taxes are debetween the revenue a firm earns
ducted from net operating
and the expenses it incurs in a
income to determine the
given time period.
firm’s net income. After paystatement of cash flows
ing $878.5 million in interest
The financial statement that
expenses and $2.179 billion
identifies a firm’s sources and uses
in taxes, McDonald’s net
of cash in a given accounting period.
income is $4.686 billion.

136

“It sounds extraordinary, but it’s
a fact that balance sheets can
make fascinating reading.”
—BARONESS MARY ARCHER, CAMBRIDGE
UNIVERSITY LECTURER AND CHAIRWOMAN
O F T H E N AT I O N A L E N E R G Y F O U N D AT I O N

■■

Net income is the profit or loss the firm earns
in the time period covered by the income statement. If net income is positive, the firm has earned
a profit. If it’s negative, the firm has suffered a
loss. Net income is called the “bottom line” of the
income statement because it is such an important
measure of the firm’s operating success.

8-3c  The Statement of Cash Flows:

Show Me the Money

The last major financial statement is the statement of
cash flows. Cash is the lifeblood of any business organization. A firm must have enough cash to pay what it owes
to workers, creditors, suppliers, and taxing authorities—
hopefully, with enough left to pay a dividend to its owners!

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Exhibit 8.3

McDonald’s Statement of Cash Flows
McDonald’s Corp.
Cash
Flow Statement December 31, 2016
C
Cash at beginning of
period (Net income)
Operating cash flows
(Cash flows related to
producing and selling)
Plus
Investing cash flows
(Cash flows from the
purchase and sale of
long-term assets)

Plus

Financing cash flows
(Cash flows related to
long-term Financing
activities)
Equals
Cash Flow Increase
(Decrease)

Cash at Beginning of Period
(Net Income)
Operating
Cash Flow
Op
Cash Payments from Customers
Inventory
Cash Operating Expenses
Net Cash Provided from Operations

Investing
Cash Flow
Inv
Capital expenditures
Sale of Land and Businesses
Purchase of Equipment
Other
Net Cash Used by Investing
Financing
Cash Flow
Fin
Increase from Short-Term Bank Loans
Increase from Long-Term Bank Loans
Payments of Cash Dividends
Repurchase of Stock
Other Cash Flows from Financing
Net
Ne Cash Provided from Financing
Total
To Cash Flow
Cash Flow Increase (Decrease)

$4,686,500,000.00
$1,047,100,000.00
$28,100,000.00
$297,900,000.00
$1,373,100,000.00

$(1,821,100,000.00)
$1,058,500,000.00
$(109,500,000.00)
$(109,500,000.00)

$(981,600,000.00)

($286,200,000.00)
$2,956,600,000.00
$(3,058,200,000.00)
$(11,171,000,000.00)
$192,700,000.00
$(11,366,100,000.00)
$(10,974,600,000.00)
$(6,288,100,000.00)

Source: Adapted from “McDonald’s Corporation," Form 10-K, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar
/data/63908/000006390817000017/mcd-12312016x10k.htm, accessed July 10, 2017. Because the accounting information found in the annual report is
much more detailed than presented here, some of the accounting numbers shown here will differ from similar numbers shown in McDonald’s cash flow
statements in its 10-K.

operating cash flows may differ
So it’s not surprising that a firm’s
substantially from the revenues and
stakeholders are very interested
“Happiness is a
expenses shown on the income
in how and why a company’s cash
positive cash flow.”
statement. Exhibit 8.3 shows that
balance changed over the past
—
F
R
E
D
A
D
L
E
R
McDonald’s operating cash flow
year. Cash flow statements comcomes from three sources: $1.047 bilmonly begin with net income.
lion from cash payments from customers, $28.1 million
Why? Because it represents an increase (or decrease in
for inventory sold to restaurants, and $297.9 million in
the case of a loss) to the cash available to the company.
cash received from its restaurants—all of which comes
Indeed, since McDonald’s net income was $4.686 billion
to $1.373 billion in net cash from operations.
in 2016, we see that amount at the beginning of cash
flow statement in Exhibit 8.3. The statement of cash flows
2. Cash flows from investing activities show the amount of
identifies the amount of cash that flowed into and out of
cash received from the sale of fixed assets (such as land
the firm from three types of activities:
and buildings) and financial assets bought as long1. Cash flows from operating activities show the amount
of cash that flowed into the company from the sale
of goods or services, as well as cash from dividends
and interest received from ownership of the financial
securities of other firms. It also shows the amount of
cash used to cover expenses resulting from operations
and any cash payments to purchase securities held for
short-term trading purposes. Remember that under
the accrual method, not all revenues and expenses
on the income statement represent cash flows, so

term investments. It also shows any cash used to buy
fixed assets or make long-term financial investments.
McDonald’s had $1.058 billion from the sale of land and
businesses, but spent $1.821 billion in cash on capital
expenditures (primarily for building and opening new
restaurants or remodeling existing restaurants) and an
additional $109.5 million from cash on equipment for
new restaurants or to upgrade existing restaurants, and
an additional $109.5 million in cash on “other” investing
activities.
CHAPTER 8: Accounting: Decision Making by the Numbers

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

137

3. Cash flows from financing activities show the cash the
firm received from issuing additional shares of its own
stock or from taking out short-term and long-term loans.
McDonald’s aggressively paid off short-term loans,
thus reducing cash by $286.2 million. But thanks to
long-term bank loans, cash flows increased by and
$2.956 billion. Payments of dividends to shareholders
reduced cash by $3.058 billion. McDonald’s also
decreased cash flow by spending $11.171 billion to
repurchase shares of McDonald’s stock. In all, cash flows
from financing activities were negative for McDonald’s
at $11.366 billion more in cash outflows than inflows.
Exhibit 8.3 shows that McDonald’s cash flows decreased
in 2016 primarily because of cash dividends paid to shareholders and repurchasing of stock from shareholders, which
together reduced cash flow by $14.229 billion.
8-3d Other Statements: What Happened
In addition to the three major statements we’ve just described, firms usually prepare either a statement of retained earnings or a stockholders’ equity statement. Let’s
take a quick look at each.
The statement of retained earnings is a simple statement that shows how retained earnings have changed
from one accounting period to the next. The change in
retained earnings is found by subtracting dividends paid
to shareholders from net income.
Firms that have more complex changes in the owners’
equity section sometimes report these changes in notes
to the financial statements in the annual report. But they
often disclose these changes by providing a stockholders’
equity statement. Like the statement of retained earnings,
this statement shows how net income and dividends affect retained earnings. But it also shows other changes in
stockholders’ equity, such as those that arise from the issuance of additional shares of stock.

8-4

I NTERPRETING FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS: DIGGING
BENEATH THE SURFACE

The financial statements we’ve just described contain a lot
of important information. But they don’t necessarily tell the
whole story. In fact, the numbers they report can be misleading if they aren’t put into proper context. Thus, in addition to looking at the statements, it’s also important to
check out the independent auditor’s report and read the

138

Andrey Popov/Shutterstock.com

to the Owners’ Stake?

External auditors carefully examine
a company’s financial records before
rendering their opinion.

management discussion and footnotes that accompany
these statements. It’s also a good idea to compare the figures reported in current statements with those from earlier
statements to see how key account values have changed.
8-4a  The Independent Auditor’s Report:

Getting a Stamp of Approval

U.S. securities laws require publicly traded corporations
in the United States to have an independent CPA firm
(an accounting firm that specializes in providing public
accounting services) perform an annual external audit of
their financial statements. And many companies that aren’t
publicly traded also obtain external audits even though
they aren’t legally required to do so.
The purpose of an audit is to verify that a company’s
financial statements were properly prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles and fairly present the financial condition of the firm. So external auditors
don’t just check the figures, they also examine the accounting methods the company used to obtain those figures. For

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

wavebreakmedia/Shutterstock.com

Should Your Business Quit Using Cash?

Tom O’Hara paid $13,000 in cash to buy a car at a used card
dealership. O’Hara later said about the exchange, “You could do
it by bank transfer. But most people just take out the cash and
bring it over.” While you probably wouldn’t pay $13,000 in cash
for a car, O’Hara is Swiss, and using cash for large purchases is
common in Switzerland. Indeed, roughly 60% of all transactions
are made with cash in the small Central European republic.

You just don’t need it. Shops don’t want it; lots of banks don’t
even have it. Even for a candy bar or a paper, you use a card
or phone.” Indeed, 56% of Sweden’s bank branches don’t take
cash deposits and don’t even have cash on hand. Greg Birch,
vice president of strategic initiatives for Ingenico Group, which
makes secure e-payment systems for businesses, says, “What
we’ve seen is a push toward electric payments because of
convenience, especially for generations X and Y and onward.
The phone has become more personal than the wallet has.”
Given the trend toward cashless transactions, the question is:
Should your business stop using cash?
After being robbed five times in three months, David Hart,
the owner of Park Café and coffee bar in Baltimore, stopped
accepting cash. Hart said, “I was very concerned, and I wanted
to be thoughtful and explain to them [employees] what to say if
the customers push back. But the customers didn’t push back.”
Sales were unaffected.

By contrast, only 22% of purchases are made with cash in the
United States. Sweden leads the global trend toward cashless
transactions, as only 20% of shop purchases and just 2% of
all payments are made in cash. Louise Henriksson, a Swedish
teaching assistant, says, “I don’t use cash anymore, for anything.

With the exception of Massachusetts, there is no law that
requires businesses to accept cash. As 7% to 8% of Americans
don’t have bank accounts, poorer customers may be affected.
But in Sweden, even the poorest are cashless. Homeless people
selling the Situation Stockholm magazine on the street to
passersby have credit card swipe readers. Stefan Wikberg
says, “Now people can’t get away. When they say, ‘I don’t have
change,’ I tell them they can pay with card or even by SMS.”9

example, auditors interview the company’s accounting and
bookkeeping staff to verify that they understand and properly
implement procedures that are consistent with GAAP. They
also examine a sample of specific source documents (such as
sales receipts or invoices) and verify that the transactions they
represent were properly posted to the correct accounts. Auditors also look for signs of fraud or falsified records. They often conduct an actual physical count of goods or supplies in
inventory to determine the accuracy of the figures reported
in the company’s inventory records and contact the company’s banker to verify its account balances. The audit process
is rigorous, but it’s important to realize that in large, public
companies, it would be impossible for auditors to check the
accuracy of every transaction.
The results of the audit are presented in an independent auditor’s report, which is included in the annual report
the firm sends to its stockholders. If the auditor doesn’t find
any problems with the way a firm’s financial statements were
prepared and presented, the report will offer an unqualified (or “clean”) opinion—which is by far the most common
outcome. If the auditor identifies some minor concerns but

believes that on balance the firm’s statements remain a fair
and accurate representation of the company’s financial position, the report will offer a qualified opinion. But when auditors
discover more serious and widespread problems with a firm’s
statements, they offer an adverse opinion. An adverse opinion
indicates that the auditor believes the financial statements
are seriously flawed and that they may be misleading and
unreliable. (An adverse opinion must include an explanation
of the specific reasons for the opinion.) Adverse opinions are
very rare, so when an auditor renders one, it should set off
alarm bells, warning stakeholders to view the information in
the firm’s financial statements with real skepticism.
For CPA firms to perform audits with integrity, they
must be independent of the firms they audit. During the
1990s, many of the major CPA firms entered into very lucrative consulting contracts with some of the businesses they
were auditing. It became increasingly difficult for these CPA
firms to risk losing these high-paying contracts by raising
issues about accounting practices when they audited the
books of their clients. In other words, the auditors ceased
to be truly independent and objective. The lack of rigorous
CHAPTER 8: Accounting: Decision Making by the Numbers

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

139

Google = Alphabet + Budgets
Since its initial stock offering in 2004, Google has been so
profitable that it has never had to worry about
financial discipline or budgets. The funds
from Google’s search-based advertising
businesses (Google search and ads, YouTube,
Android, and Chrome), which accounted
for 90% to 95% of company revenues, were
so large that they covered up significant
problems and losses across the rest of Google.

two venture capital groups, two mobile operating systems, and
two research labs. But who cares about budgets or
whether you have two of everything when your
core business is growing by 20% a year for 20
straight quarters?
That all changed, however, when Google
reorganized into Alphabet, Inc. (a holding
company for Google’s businesses) and hired
Ruth Porat (pictured) from Morgan Stanley
to be Chief Financial Officer (CFO). As
Alphabet’s CFO, Borat quickly set to work
establishing budgets, encouraging cost-cutting and revenue
growth, and breaking out financial performance measures for
each of Google’s divisions.

Indeed, non–search-related businesses, which FABRICE COFFRINI/Getty Images
Google calls “Other Bets,” such as Google X
(long-shot research and business ideas), Nest (networked thermostats), Google Fiber (broadband), Calico (longevity research), life
sciences, and Google Ventures (start-up investments) lost $3.6
billion in 2015 on revenues of $0.4 billion, compared to Google’s
Alphabet Chairman Eric Schmidt said of the new direction, “The
search-related profit of $15.8 billion on revenues of $74.5 billion.
cost-cutting is real, and it’s the right thing to be done, and it’s
A formal Google executive explained, “No one wants to face the
driven by [Porat]. Before she was there, we had lost discipline.”
reality that this is an advertising company with a bunch of hobbies.”
Now, 18 months after Borat established budgets, search accounts
for just 86% of Alphabet’s revenues, while Other Bet losses have
Likewise, in 2016, Google’s organizational structure was so
declined by 10% thanks to a 75% increase in revenues.10
undisciplined that it had two music subscription businesses,

oversight by external auditors contributed to the accountstandards clarify that professional accountants must be acing scandals we mentioned earlier in this chapter.
tive and not turn a blind eye to noncompliance. It’s trying
In the aftermath of the scandals, Congress passed
to bring about early, early detection, if you will, but also
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (commonly referred to as
early action by management or authorities.”13
“SOX” or “Sarbox”). This law banned business relationships
that might create conflicts of interest between CPA firms
8-4b  Checking Out the Notes to Financial
and the companies they audit. It also established a privateStatements: What’s in the Fine Print?
sector nonprofit corporation known as the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB). The PCAOB
Some types of information can’t be adequately conveyed
defines its mission as follows: “To protect the interests of
by numbers alone. Annual reports include notes (often
investors and further the public interest in the preparation
many pages of notes) that disclose additional information
of informative, fair, and independent audit reports.”11
about the firm’s operations, accounting practices, and speDespite Sarbanes-Oxley and the U.S. Securities and Excial circumstances that clarify and supplement the numchange Commission’s strict enforcement of GAAP accounting
bers reported on the financial statements. These notes can
rules, 71 class-action lawsuits were filed against companies for
be very revealing. As mentioned earlier, GAAP often allows
improper accounting statements, which are alleged to have
firms to choose among several options when it comes to
cost investors $35 billion in losses.12
certain accounting procedures—
To encourage accountants and
and the choices the firm makes can
In 2004 a horse named
auditors to report illegal or unethiaffect the value of assets, liabilities,
cal accounting practices, the Interand owners’ equity on the balance
“Read The Footnotes”
national Ethics Standards Boards for
sheet and the revenues, costs,
ran in the Kentucky
Accountants (IESBA) developed a
and net income on the income
Derby.
new code of ethics for professional
statement. The notes to financial
accountants that went into effect
statements explain the specific ac— SECURITIES AND
in July 2017. Stavros Thomadakis,
counting methods used to recogEXCHANGE COMMISSION
chairman of the IESBA, says, “The
nize revenue, value inventory, and

140

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

8-4c  Looking for Trends in Comparative

Statements

The SEC requires publicly traded corporations to provide
comparative financial statements. This simply means that
the balance sheet, income statement, and statement of
cash flows must list two or more years of figures side by
side, making it possible to see how account values have
changed over a period of time. Many firms that aren’t publicly traded also present comparative statements, even
though they are not required to do so by GAAP.
Comparative balance sheets allow users to trace what
has happened to key assets and liabilities over the past
two or three years, and whether its owners’ equity had increased. ­Comparative income statements show whether
the firm’s net income increased or decreased and what has
happened to r­evenues and expenses over recent years.
Using comparative statements to identify changes in key
account values over time is called h
­ orizontal analysis.

8-5

iStock.com/Dean Mitchell

depreciate fixed assets. They might also provide details
about the way the firm funds its pension plan or health insurance for its employees. They must also disclose changes
in accounting methods that could affect the comparability of the current financial statements to those of previous
years. Even more interesting, the notes might disclose important facts about the status of a lawsuit against the firm
or other risks the firm faces. Stakeholders who ignore these
notes are likely to miss out on important information.
Another important source of information is the section
of the annual report usually titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis.” As its name implies, this is where the top
management team provides its take on the financial condition of the company. SEC guidelines require top management to disclose any trends, events, or risks likely to have a
significant impact on the firm’s financial condition in this
section of the report. For 2016, the most significant item
was achieving its three-year target of returning $30 billion
in cash to shareholders (via dividends and stock buy backs).

Budgeting encourages communication
and coordination among managers and
employees.

needed to achieve these goals. But budgeting offers other
advantages as well. If done well, budgeting:
■■

Helps managers clearly specify how they intend to
achieve the goals they set during the planning process. This should lead to a better understanding of how
the organization’s limited resources will be allocated.

■■

Encourages communication and coordination among
managers and employees in various departments
within the organization. For example, the budget
process can give middle and first-line managers and
employees an opportunity to provide top managers
with important insights about the challenges facing
their specialized areas—and the resources they need
to meet those challenges. But, as we will explain in
the next section, the extent to which this advantage
is realized depends on
the specific approach
horizontal analysis
used in the budgeting

B UDGETING: PLANNING FOR
ACCOUNTABILITY

process.
■■

Management accountants also play an important role in
the development of budgets. Budgeting is a management tool that explicitly shows how a firm will acquire and
allocate the resources it needs to achieve its goals over
a specific time period. The budgetary process facilitates
planning by requiring managers to translate goals into
measurable quantities and identify the specific resources

Serves as a motivational
tool. Good budgets
clearly identify goals
and demonstrate a plan
of action for acquiring
the resources needed to
achieve them. Employees tend to be more

Analysis of financial statements
that compares account values
reported on these statements
over two or more years to identify
changes and trends.

budgeting A management
tool that explicitly shows how
a firm will acquire and use the
resources needed to achieve its
goals over a specific time period.

CHAPTER 8: Accounting: Decision Making by the Numbers
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

141

highly motivated when they understand the goals
their managers expect them to accomplish and when
they view these goals as ambitious but achievable.
■■

Helps managers evaluate progress and performance.
Managers can compare actual performance to budgeted figures to determine whether various departments and functional areas are making adequate
progress toward achieving their organization’s goals.
If actual performance falls short of budgetary goals,
managers can look for reasons and, if necessary, take
corrective action.

8-5a  Preparing the Budget: Top-Down

or Bottom-Up?

There are two broad approaches to budget preparation.
In some organizations, top management prepares the
budget with little or no input from middle and ­supervisory
managers—a process known as top-down budgeting. Supporters of this approach point out that top management
knows the long-term strategic needs of the company and
is in a better position to see the big picture when m
­ aking
budget decisions.
The other approach to budgeting is called bottom-up
(or participatory) budgeting. Organizations that use a participatory process allow middle and supervisory managers
to participate actively in the creation of the budget. Proponents of this approach maintain that it has two major
advantages. First, middle and supervisory managers are
likely to know more about the issues and challenges facing their departments—and the resources it will take to
address them—than top management. Second, middle
and first-line managers are likely to be more highly motivated to achieve budgetary goals when they have a say
in how those goals are
developed. On the negative side, the bottom-up
operating budgets
Budgets that communicate
approach is more time
an organization’s sales and
consuming and resource
production goals and the
intensive to carry out than
resources needed to achieve
the top-down approach.
these goals.
Also, some middle manfinancial budgets
agers may be tempted to
Budgets that focus on the firm’s
overstate their needs or set
financial goals and identify the
resources needed to achieve
low budget goals in order
these goals.
to make their jobs easier—
an outcome known as
master budget A
presentation of an organization’s
budgetary slack.14 Despite
operational and financial budgets
these drawbacks, the particthat represents the firm’s overall
ipatory approach currently
plan of action for a specified time
is more common than the
period.
top-down process.

142

8-5b  Developing the Key Budget

Components: One Step at a Time

The budgeting process actually requires the preparation
of several different types of budgets. But all of these individual budgets can be classified into two broad categories:
operating budgets and financial budgets.
Operating budgets are budgets that identify projected sales and production goals and the various costs
the firm will incur to meet these goals. These budgets are
developed in a specific order, with the information from
earlier budgets used in the preparation of later budgets.
The preparation of operating budgets begins with
the development of a sales budget that provides quarterly
estimates of the number of units of each product the firm
expects to sell, the selling price, and the total dollar value
of expected sales. The sales budget must be created first
because many of the production and cost figures that go
into other operating budgets depend on the level of sales.
Once the sales budget is complete, the budgeted sales level
can be used to develop the production budget, the administrative expenses, and the selling expenses budgets. And
once the production budget is completed, the information
it contains is used to prepare budgets for direct labor costs,
direct materials costs, and manufacturing overhead. The
final stage in the preparation of operating budgets is the
creation of a budgeted income statement. This budget looks
much like the income statement we described earlier, but
instead of describing the actual results of the firm’s past operations, it combines the revenue projections from the sales
budget and the cost projections from the other operating
budgets, to present a forecast of expected net income.
Financial budgets focus on the firm’s financial goals
and identify the resources needed to achieve these goals. The
two main financial budget documents are the cash budget
and the capital expenditure budget. The cash budget identifies
short-term fluctuations in cash flows, helping managers identify times when the firm might face cash flow problems—or
when it might have a temporary surplus of cash that it could
invest. The capital expenditure budget identifies the firm’s
planned investments in major fixed assets and long-term projects. The information from these two financial budgets and
the budgeted income statement are combined to construct
the budgeted balance sheet. This is the last financial budget;
it shows how the firm’s operations, investing, and financing
activities are expected to affect all of the asset, liability, and
owners’ equity accounts.
The firm’s master budget organizes the operating
and financial budgets into a unified whole, representing
the firm’s overall plan of action for a specified time period.
In other words, the master budget shows how all of the
pieces fit together to form a complete picture. Exhibit 8.4

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Exhibit 8.4

Development of the Master Budget
Operating Budgets:
Sales Budget

Production Budget

Direct Labor
Budget

Direct
Materials
Budget

Overhead
Costs Budget

Budgeted
Income
Statement
Financial Budgets:

Cash Budget

Capital Budget

shows all of the budget documents that are included in
a typical master budget. The arrows indicate the order in
which the budgets are developed, starting with the sales
budget and ending with the budgeted balance sheet.
8-5c  Being Flexible: Clearing Up

hardware purchases such as
tools, parts, appliances, and
cabinetry. As a result, big
box hardware and home improvement chain Lowes announced in January 2017 that
it was cutting 3,000 jobs and
using information technology
and in-store video cameras to
properly match store staffing
to store traffic trends. Lowes
Selling and
CEO Robert Niblock said,
Administrative
“We’ve got to make sure that
Expense Budget
as the consumer is changing
the ways they engage with us,
we continue to be nimble.”15
As we mentioned earlier,
many cost figures in budgets
are based on the level of sales
specified in the sales budget.
When actual sales differ significantly from the sales volume
assumed in a static budget,
all of these related budget
figures will be erroneous. Using these inaccurate figures
to evaluate real-world performance is likely to result in very
Budgeted
poor assessments!
Balance Sheet
One common way managerial accountants avoid this
problem is to develop a flexible
budget for control purposes. A
flexible budget is one that isn’t based on a single assumed
level of sales. Instead, it is developed over a range of possible sales levels, and is designed to show the appropriate
budgeted level of costs for each different level of sales. This
flexibility enables managers to make more meaningful comparisons between actual costs and budgeted costs.

Problems with Static

The budget process, as we’ve described it so far, results in
a static budget, meaning that it is based on a single assumed level of sales. Static budgets are excellent tools for
planning, but they have weaknesses when they are used
to measure progress, evaluate performance, and identify
problem areas that need correcting.
The problem with a static budget is that real-world
sales can (and often do) vary considerably from their forecasted value—often for reasons that aren’t under the control of the firm’s management. For example, consumers are
increasingly turning to online purchases—even for home

8-6

INSIDE INTELLIGENCE: THE ROLE
OF MANAGERIAL ACCOUNTING

Now that we’ve looked
at financial accounting,
let’s turn our attention to
the other major branch of
accounting, managerial

(or
management)
accounting. As its name

managerial (or
management)
accounting The branch of
accounting that provides reports
and analysis to managers to help
them make informed business
decisions.

CHAPTER 8: Accounting: Decision Making by the Numbers
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

143

EXHIBIT 8.5

COMPARISON OF FINANCIAL AND MANAGERIAL ACCOUNTING
Financial Accounting

Managerial Accounting

Purpose

Primarily intended to provide information to
external stakeholders, such as stockholders,
creditors, and government regulators. Information
provided by financial accounting is available to the
general public.

Primarily intended to provide information to internal
stakeholders, such as the managers of specific divisions
or departments. This information is proprietary—meaning
that it isn’t available to the general public.

Type of Information
Presented

Focuses almost exclusively on financial information.

Provides both financial and nonfinancial information.

Nature of Reports

Prepares a standard set of financial statements.

Prepares customized reports to deal with specific
problems or issues.

Timing of Reports

Presents financial statements on a predetermined
schedule (usually quarterly and annually).

Creates reports upon request by management rather than
according to a predetermined schedule.

Adherence to Accounting
Standards?

Governed by a set of generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP).

Uses procedures developed internally that are not required
to follow GAAP.

Time Period Focus

Summarizes past performance and its impact on the
firm’s present condition.

Provides reports dealing with past performance but
also involves making projections about the future when
dealing with planning issues.

implies, this branch of accounting is designed to meet the
needs of a company’s managers, though in recent years
many firms have empowered other employees and given
them access to some of this information as well. Exhibit 8.5
identifies several ways that managerial accounting differs
from financial accounting.
Managers throughout an organization rely on information created by managerial accountants to make important
decisions. The accuracy and reliability of this information can
make a huge difference in the performance of a firm. In fact,
many firms view their management accounting systems as
a source of competitive advantage and regard the specifics
of these systems as highly valuable company secrets.16
It’s impossible to describe all the functions performed by
managerial accountants in a single chapter. So we’ll be selective and focus on only two of them—but the two we’ll discuss often play a crucial role in managerial decision making:
measuring and assigning costs, and developing budgets.
cost The value of what is given
up in exchange for something.

out-of-pocket cost A cost
that involves the payment of
money or other resources.

implicit cost The
opportunity cost that arises
when a firm uses owner-supplied
resources.

144

8-6a  Cost Concepts:

A Cost for All
Reasons

Without good information
on costs, managers would
be operating in the dark as
they try to set prices, determine the most desirable mix
of products, and locate areas

where efficiency is lagging. A firm’s management accounting
system helps managers throughout an organization measure
costs and assign them to products, activities, and even whole
divisions.
Accountants define cost as the value of what is given
up in exchange for something else. Depending on the type
of problem they are analyzing, managerial accountants
actually measure and evaluate several different types
of costs. We’ll begin our discussion by describing some
of the cost concepts commonly used by managerial
accountants.
At the most basic level, accountants distinguish
between out-of-pocket costs and opportunity costs.
Out-of-pocket costs (also called explicit costs) are
usually easy to measure because they involve actual expenditures of money or other resources. The wages a
company pays to its workers, the payments it makes to
suppliers for raw materials, and the rent it pays for office
space are examples.
But accountants realize that not all costs involve a
monetary payment; sometimes what is given up is the opportunity to use an asset in some alternative way. Such opportunity costs are often referred to as implicit costs. For
example, suppose a couple of lawyers form a partnership
and set up their office in a building one of the partners
already owns. They feel good about their decision because
they don’t have to make any out-of-pocket payments for
rent. But a good managerial accountant would point out
to the partners that they still incur an implicit cost, because

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

bogdanhoda/Shutterstock.com

The bricks, the mortar, the gloves, and the
wages paid for the labor are all out-ofpocket costs.

by using the building themselves they forgo the opportunity to earn income by renting the office space to someone else.
Managerial accountants also distinguish between
fixed costs and variable costs. As the name implies,
fixed costs don’t change when the firm changes its
level of production. Examples of fixed costs include
interest on a bank loan, property insurance premiums,
rent on office space, and other payments that are set
by a contract or by legal requirements. Many fixed costs
are really only fixed for some “relevant range” of output.
For example, if a company sees a dramatic rise in sales, it
might have to move into bigger facilities, thus incurring
a higher rent.
Variable costs are costs that rise (vary) when
the firm produces more of its goods and services. As a
company ramps up its production, it is likely to need more
labor and materials and to use more electrical power. Thus
payments for many types of labor, supplies, and utilities are
variable costs.
8-6b  Assigning Costs to Products:

As (Not So) Simple as ABC?

Finally, accountants often want to assign costs to specific cost objects, such as one of the goods or services
their firm produces. When they assign costs to s­ pecific
cost objects, accountants distinguish between direct
costs and indirect costs. Direct costs are those that can
be directly traced to the production of the product. For
example, the wage payments made to workers directly
involved in producing a good or service would be a direct cost for that product. On the other hand, the costs

a firm incurs for plant maintenance, quality control, or
depreciation on office equipment are usually classified
as indirect costs since they tend to be the result of
the firm’s general operation rather than the production
of any specific product.
Direct costs for labor and materials are usually easy
to measure and assign, since they have an easily identifiable link to the object. Unfortunately, indirect costs
aren’t tied in such a simple and direct way to the production of a specific product. In the past, managerial
accountants usually relied on simple rules to assign indirect costs to different products—and in some cases
they still do. One such approach is to allocate indirect
costs in proportion to the number of direct labor hours
involved in the production of each product. Under this
method, products that require the most labor to produce are assigned the most indirect costs. But while this
approach is simple, it can provide very misleading information. There is simply no logical reason for many types
of indirect costs to be related to the amount of direct
labor used to produce a product.
In recent years, managerial accountants have
developed more sophisticated ways to allocate costs.
One relatively new method is called activity-based
costing (ABC).
This approach is more complex and difficult to implement than the direct labor method. Basically, it involves a
two-stage process. The first stage is to identify specific a
ctivities that create indirect costs, and then determine the factors that “drive” the costs of these activities. The second stage is
to tie these cost drivers to the
production of specific goods
fixed costs Costs that remain
(or other cost objects). Once
the same when the level of
the relationships between
production changes within some
relevant range.
cost drivers and specific products are identified, they can
variable costs Costs that
be used to determine how
vary directly with the level of
production.
much of each indirect cost is
assigned to each product.
direct cost Costs that are
Clearly, ABC is much
incurred directly as the result of
some specific cost object.
more complex to implement than a system that
indirect costs Costs that
assigns costs based on a
are the result of a firm’s general
operations and are not directly
simple “one size fits all” rule,
tied to any specific cost object.
such as the direct labor
method. However, it’s likely
activity-based costing
(ABC) A technique to assign
to provide more meaningful
product costs based on links
results because it is based
between activities that drive
on a systematic examination
costs and the production
of how indirect costs are
of specific products.
related to individual goods.
CHAPTER 8: Accounting: Decision Making by the Numbers

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

145

THE BIG PICTURE
Accounting provides vital information to
both the internal and external stakeholders of a firm. The balance sheet, income statement, and
statement of cash flows that are the main output of financial
accounting help external stakeholders, such as owners and
creditors, evaluate the financial performance of a firm.

And managerial accounting helps managers throughout an
organization make better decisions by providing them with
relevant and timely information about the costs and benefits
of the choices they have to make. Clearly, a basic knowledge
of accounting concepts will help you succeed in just about
any career path you choose.

CAREERS IN ACCOUNTING
Staff Accountant
Responsible for daily cash reconciliation, preparation of
monthly financial reports, including balance sheets and
profit and loss statements, preparing spreadsheets and
financial forecasts and analyses for the accounting manager
and/or controller, and ensuring compliance with GAAP

STUDY TOOLS

and Sarbanes-Oxley requirements. The ideal candidate has
a bachelor’s or master’s degree in accounting, technical
accounting knowledge, strong oral and written communication skills, a problem-solving attitude, the ability
to prioritize tasks and work under deadlines, pays close
attention to detail, and is eligible to sit for the CPA exam or is
CPA certified.

8

LOCATED AT BACK OF THE TEXTBOOK
■■

Rip-Out Chapter Review Card

■■

Gain unique perspectives on key concepts with new concept
videos in the e-book
Increase your comprehension with online homework and
quizzes

■■

146

■■

Study with existing flashcards and make your own

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Finance:

9

Acquiring and Using Funds
to Maximize Value

LEARNING OBJECTIVES
After studying this chapter, you will be able to:
9-1 Identify the goal of financial management, and explain the issues financial managers confront

9-2 Describe the tools financial managers use to evaluate their company’s current financial

condition and develop financial plans
9-3 Evaluate the major sources of funds available to meet a firm’s short-term and long-term

financial needs
9-4 Identify the key issues involved in determining a firm’s capital structure

Remember to visit

PAGE 168
for additional

STUDY TOOLS

9-5 Describe how financial managers acquire and manage current assets
9-6 Explain how financial managers evaluate capital budgeting proposals to identify the best long-

term investment options for their company

9-1

W HAT MOTIVATES FINANCIAL DECISIONS?

Financial capital refers to the funds a firm uses to acquire its assets
and finance its operations. Firms use some of their capital to meet
short-term obligations, such as paying bills from suppliers, meeting
payroll, repaying loans from banks, and paying taxes owed to the
government. Other funds are used to finance major long-term
investments, such as the purchase of a plant and equipment or the
launch of a new product line. And firms need some funds to pay a
return to the owners for their investment in the company.
Billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk leads three companies—
SolarCity, SpaceX, and Tesla Motors—worth more than $50
billion. It’s estimated that in
financial capital The funds a
the last few years, Musk has
firm uses to acquire its assets and
invested $300 million of his
finance its operations.
personal funds to purchase

148

additional shares in Tesla and SolarCity (figures are not
available for SpaceX, which is privately funded). Musk said, “If
I ask investors to put money in, then I feel morally I should
put money in as well. I should not ask people to eat from the
fruit bowl if I have not myself been willing to eat from the
fruit bowl.”1 In addition to direct contributions from owners

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Diego
Monkey
Cervo/Shutterstock.com
Business Images/Shutterstock

as they seek to achieve this goal

like Elon Musk, companies can also acquire financial capital
through reinvestment of earnings, loans from banks, credit
provided by suppliers, and (for corporations) newly issued
stocks or bonds. This isn’t a complete list by any means—in
fact, we’ll discuss additional sources later in the chapter—but
you get the idea: firms often have several ways to raise money.
In a nutshell, finance is the functional area of business
that is responsible for finding, among all these ­alternatives,
the best sources of funds and the best ways to use them.
But which sources and uses are “best” depends on the
goals of the financial managers. Historically, the most
­widely ­accepted goal of financial management has been to
maximize the value of the firm to its owners. For corporations
with publicly traded stock, this translates into finding the
sources and uses of financial capital that will maximize
the market price of the company’s common stock. After all,
the stockholders are the ones with their money at risk.
Financial managers emphasize the goal of maximizing the market price of stock because they have a legal
and ethical obligation (called a fiduciary duty) to make
decisions consistent with the financial interests of their
firm’s owners. The legal foundation of this fiduciary duty

“Money is like a sixth sense—
and you can’t make use of the
other five without it.”
—WILLIAM SOMERSET MAUGHAM, ENGLISH
PLAYWRIGHT, NOVELIST, AND SHORT STORY WRITER

was established in a famous 1919 court case, Dodge v. Ford
Motor Co., in which the court ruled that “a business corporation is organized and carried on primarily for the profit
of the stockholders.”2 Recent legal rulings and scholarship
reaffirm this fiduciary duty.3
Another reason for emphasizing shareholder wealth
is more pragmatic. Firms that fail to create shareholder
wealth are unlikely to be viewed as attractive investments. So, to continue
attracting the financial
finance The functional area of
capital needed to achieve
business that is concerned with
its other goals, a firm
finding the best sources and uses
must provide value to its
of financial capital.
stockholders.
CHAPTER 9: Finance: Acquiring and Using Funds to Maximize Value

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

149

Exhibit 9.1

Risk-Return Trade-Off Average, High and Low Financial
Returns, 1928–2016
Risk-Return T radeoff: A verage, High & Low Returns,
1928–2016
70.00%
52.56%
50.00%
32.81%
30.00%

Return

14.30%
10.00%
210.00%

11.51%
5.21%

3.46%
0.03%

211.12%
230.00%
243.84%

250.00%
270.00%

3-Month
Treasury Bills

10-Year
Treasury Bonds

S&P 500
Stocks

Sources: A. Damodaran, “Annual Returns on Stock, T.Bonds and T.Bills: 1928– Current,” Stern School of Business, New York University, January 5, 2017, http://
pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/New_Home_Page/datafile/histretSP.html, accessed February 2, 2017; Risk and Return: An Introduction, Bogleheads, August 1,
2016, https://www.bogleheads.org/wiki/Risk_and_return:_an_introduction#cite_note-7, accessed February 2, 2017.

But finding the mix of sources and uses of funds that
maximize shareholder value isn’t a simple process. Let’s
look at two major issues that confront financial managers
as they seek to achieve their primary goal.
9-1a Shareholder Value and Social

Responsibility: Does Good Behavior
Pay Off?

The emphasis that financial managers place on maximizing
shareholder value may seem to conflict with the modern
view that a socially responsible firm has an ­obligation to
respect the needs of all stakeholders—not just its owners, but also its employees, customers, creditors, suppliers, and even society as a whole. The good news is that
being socially responsible can be (and often is) a good
strategy for also achieving the goal of shareholder wealth
maximization—especially if managers take a long-term
­
perspective.
When a company respects the needs of customers by
providing high-quality goods and services at competitive
prices, and when it l­ istens and responds fairly to their concerns,
those customers are more likely to keep ­coming back—
and to recommend the company to friends and relatives.

150

Similarly, when a firm provides its employees with a good
work environment, those employees are likely to have better
morale and greater loyalty, resulting in higher productivity
and lower employee turnover. And when a company supports its local community through corporate philanthropy or
cause-related marketing, the resulting goodwill may boost
sales and create a more ­favorable business climate. All of
these outcomes suggest that a commitment to meeting social responsibilities can contribute to a more profitable company and an increase in shareholder value.4
But things aren’t always that simple. Being socially responsible requires a long-term commitment to the needs
of many different stakeholders. Incentives for top executives
(in the form of raises, bonuses, and other perks), however,
are often tied to their firm’s short-term performance. In such
cases, some managers focus on policies that make their
firm’s stock price rise in the short run, but which are unsustainable over the long haul. And when managers fix their
attention on raising the market price of the company’s stock
in the next year (or next quarter), concerns about social
­responsibility sometimes get lost in the shuffle.
It is also worth noting that responding to the needs
of all stakeholders isn’t always a simple and straightforward
task. Diverse stakeholder groups can have very different

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

9-1b Risk and Return: A Fundamental

Trade-Off in Financial Management

One of the most important lessons in financial management
is that there is a trade-off between risk and return. In financial management, risk refers to the degree of uncertainty
about the actual outcome of a decision. The risk-return
trade-off suggests that sources and uses of funds that offer the potential for high rates of return tend to be riskier
than sources and uses of funds that offer lower returns.
Financial managers want to earn an attractive rate
of return for shareholders. But they also must realize that
the higher the expected return they seek, the more they
expose their company to risk. Exhibit 9.1 illustrates the riskreturn trade-offs of three kinds of investments from 1928 to
2016. As discussed in section 9-5a, treasury bills, or “T-bills,”
are backed by the U.S. government and are basically riskfree. They are often considered a “cash equivalent.” Because
of their short-term nature and nearly zero risk, the average
return on T-bills is just 3.46%. Given their extremely low
risk, T-bills have the smallest range of returns, from a low of
0.03% to a high of 14.30%. Ten-year treasury bonds generally produce higher returns because of the increased risk of
holding the bond for such a long time. Therefore, not only
is the average return from 10-year treasury bonds higher at
5.21%, the range of returns (the risk) is greater, with a low
return of –11.12% and a high of 32.81%. (Section 10-3c explains why bond yields or returns vary from year to year.)
Investing in stocks produces the highest average return at
11.51%. That higher return comes with much more risk. Indeed, annual stock returns ranged from a low of –43.84% to
a high of 52.56%. The risk-return relationship is expressed in
this exhibit via the green dotted line (representing highest
returns) and red dotted line (representing lowest returns).
The vertical distance between the green- and red-dotted
lines represents the risk, or range of returns. This distance
increases as the average return rises from left to right via
T-bills, treasury bonds, and stocks.5

iStock.com/sshaw75

goals, and finding the right balance among the competing interests of these groups can be difficult. For example,
a firm’s managers might believe they can ­increase profits
(and the value of its stock) by shutting down a plant in the
United States and outsourcing the work to China. While
this might benefit shareholders, it would clearly be detrimental to its U.S. workforce and the community in which
that current plant is located. When conflicts arise between
the long-term interests of owners and those of other stakeholders, the fiduciary duty required of financial managers
generally leads them to make decisions that are most consistent with the interests of ownership.
We can analyze McDonald’s strengths and
weaknesses by comparing the company’s
financial ratios to industry averages.

9-2

IDENTIFYING FINANCIAL NEEDS:
EVALUATION AND PLANNING

Before financial managers can determine the best financial strategies for their firm, they must identify existing
strengths and weaknesses. Then they must devise financial plans that provide a roadmap the firm can use to
improve financial performance and acquire the resources needed to achieve its short-term and long-term
objectives.
9-2a Using Ratio Analysis to Identify

Current Strengths and Weaknesses

One way financial managers evaluate a firm’s current
strengths and weaknesses is by computing ratios that
compare values of key accounts listed on their firm’s financial statements—mainly its
balance sheet and income
risk The degree of uncertainty
statement. This technique
regarding the outcome of a
decision.
is called financial ­ratio
­analysis. Over the years,
risk-return trade-off The
financial managers have
observation that financial
opportunities that offer high
developed an impressive
rates of return are generally riskier
array of specific ratios. The
than opportunities that offer
most important fall into
lower rates of return.
four basic categories: lifinancial ratio analysis
quidity, asset management,
Computing ratios that compare
leverage, and profitability.
­
values of key accounts listed on a
Because financial needs
firm’s financial statements.
differ across industries,
CHAPTER 9: Finance: Acquiring and Using Funds to Maximize Value

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

151

1. Liquidity ratios: In finance, a
liquid asset is one that can be
quickly converted into cash with
little risk of loss. Liquidity ratios
measure the ability of an organization to convert assets into the cash
it needs to pay off liabilities that
come due in the next year.
One of the simplest and most
commonly used liquidity ratios is the current ratio,
which is computed by dividing a firm’s current assets
by its current liabilities. Current assets include cash
and other assets expected to be converted into
cash in the next year, while current liabilities are the
debts that must be repaid in the next year. The larger
the current ratio, the easier it is for a firm to pay its
short-term debts. A current ratio below 1.0 signifies that a company does not have enough current
assets to pay short-term
liabilities. In January 2017,
liquid asset An asset that can
McDonald’s current ratio
quickly be converted into cash
was 1.39 compared to the
with little risk of loss.
industry average of 1.54.
liquidity ratios Financial
So while McDonald’s has
ratios that measure the ability
39% more current assets
of a firm to obtain the cash it
needs to pay its short-term debt
than liabilities the industry
obligations as they come due.
has a stronger financial
asset management
liquidity ratio with 54%
ratios Financial ratios that
more current assets than
measure how effectively a firm
liabilities. When we discuss
is using its assets to generate
how firms manage cash
revenues or cash.
and other liquid assets,
financial leverage The
you'll learn that it is also
use of debt in a firm’s capital
possible to have too much
structure.
liquidity.

152

2. Asset management ratios: ­Asset
­management ­ratios (also sometimes called activity ratios) measure
how effectively an organization uses
its assets to generate net income.
For example, the inventory turnover
ratio—computed by dividing the
firm’s cost of goods sold by average
inventory levels—measures how
many times a firm’s inventory is sold
and replaced each year. For example,
if a company keeps an average of 100
finished widgets in inventory each
month, and it sold 1,000 widgets
this year, then it turned its inventory
ten times. A high turnover ratio is
good because it indicates that a firm
can continue its daily operations
with a small amount of inventory on
hand. It’s expensive to have unsold
inventory sitting on shelves, that is,
low inventory turns. Companies with
high inventory turns, which replenish inventory levels more frequently,
have less cash tied up in inventory,
		which means those funds can be used elsewhere. However, inventory turnover ratios can be too high. When that
happens, the company isn’t keeping enough goods in
stock, causing stockouts, which frustrates customers and
results in lost sales if they take their business elsewhere.
In January 2017, McDonald’s inventory turnover ratio
of 181 was much stronger than the industry average of
67. In other words, McDonald’s carries 2.02 days’ worth
of inventory on average, compared to the average fastfood restaurant, which carries 5.45 days of inventory.
For firms that sell a lot of goods on credit, the average
collection period is another important asset management ratio. This ratio is computed by dividing accounts
receivable by average daily credit sales. A value of 45
for this ratio means that customers take 45 days (on
average) to pay for their credit purchases. In general, the
smaller the ratio, the better, since a lower value indicates
that the firm’s customers are paying for their purchases
more quickly. But we’ll see in our discussion of working
capital management that low collection periods can also
have drawbacks. In January 2017, McDonald’s average
collection period was 20 days, compared to the fast-food
industry average of 9 days. Typically, average collection
periods under 30 days are considered to be very strong.
3. Leverage ratios: Financial leverage is the use
of debt to meet a firm’s financing needs; a highly
iStock.com/Mgkaya

for example, the automobile industry
is capital intensive (it takes billions of
dollars to design new cars and build or
refurbish factories), whereas the software industry is not (the marginal cost
of producing another copy of a software program or app is close to zero);
it’s standard practice is to compare a
firm’s financial ratios to industry averages. We’ll do just that as we work
through the financial ratios below by
continuing our financial analysis of
McDonald’s, which we began in Chapter 8 on a­ ccounting, where you learned
the ­basics of i­ncome statements, balance sheets, and cash flows.6

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

EXHIBIT 9.2 KEY FINANCIAL RATIOS
Ratio Name

Type

What It Measures

Current

Liquidity: measures ability to
pay short-term liabilities as they
come due.

Compares current assets (assets that will provide
cash in the next year) to current liabilities (debts
that will come due in the next year).

Inventory
Turnover

Asset management:
measures how effectively a firm is
­using its assets to generate revenue.

How quickly a firm sells its inventory to generate revenue.

Average
­Collection
Period

Asset management:
measures how effectively a firm is
­using its assets to generate revenue.

How long it takes for a firm to collect from
customers who buy on credit.

Debt to
Asset

Leverage: measures the extent to
which a firm relies on debt to meet
its financing needs.

Similar to debt to equity, but compares debt to
assets rather than equity. This is another way of
measuring the degree of financial leverage, or
debt, the firm is using.

Return on
Equity

Profitability: compares the amount
of profit to some measure of
resources invested.

Indicates earnings per dollar invested by
the owners of the company. Since common
­stockholders are the true owners, preferred
­stockholders’ dividends are deducted from net
income before computing this ratio.

Earnings per
Share

Profitability: compares the amount
of profit to some measure of
resources invested.

Measures the net income per share of common
stock outstanding.

leveraged firm is one that relies heavily on debt. While
the use of leverage can benefit a firm when times are
good, a high degree of leverage is very risky. As we
mentioned earlier, the extensive use of debt financing by big banks and major Wall Street firms played
a major role in the financial meltdown that began
during the latter part of the past decade.
Leverage ratios measure the extent to which
a firm uses financial leverage. One common measure
of leverage is the debt-to-asset ratio (sometimes just
called the debt ratio), which is computed by dividing a
firm’s total liabilities by its total assets. If a firm financed
half its assets with debt and half with owners’ equity,
its debt ratio would be 0.5 (or 50%). The higher the
debt-to-asset ratio, the more heavily leveraged the
firm is. In January 2017, McDonald’s debt-to-asset ratio
was 83.7%, compared to Starbucks’ ratio of 25.1%. This
indicates that ­McDonald’s was leveraged with nearly
3.3 times the debt that Starbucks had.
4. Profitability ratios: Firms are in business to earn a profit,
and profitability ratios provide measures of how
successful they are at achieving this goal. There are
many different profitability ratios, but we’ll look at just a
couple of examples. Return on equity (ROE), calculated by

How It Is Computed
Current Assets
Current Liabilities
Cost of Goods Sold
Average Inventory

(

Accounts Receivable
Annual Credit Sales
365

)

Total Debt
Total Assets

Net Income – Preferred Dividend
Average Common Stockholders Equity

Net Income – Preferred Dividend
Average Number of Common
Shares Outstanding

dividing net income (profit) by owners’ equity, measures
the income earned per dollar ­invested by the stockholders. In January 2017, McDonald’s ROE was a very strong
192%, compared to an industry average of 24.8%, so a
dollar invested in McDonald’s produces a larger return
to shareholders than the fast-food industry on average.
Another profitability ratio, called earnings per
share (EPS), indicates how much net income a
firm earned per share of common stock outstanding. It is calculated by dividing net income minus
preferred dividends by the average number of shares
of common stock outstanding. In January 2017,
McDonald’s EPS was 5.44, compared to Starbucks’
EPS of 1.90. So EPS shows that McDonald’s earned
greater net income per share of stock than Starbucks
during this time.
Exhibit 9.2 defines each
of the ratios we’ve just
described and shows how
it is computed. As you look
at the exhibit, keep in mind
that it represents only a
sample of the financial ratios
used by financial managers.

leverage ratios Ratios that
measure the extent to which a
firm relies on debt financing in its
capital structure.
profitability ratios Ratios
that measure the rate of return
a firm is earning on various
measures of investment.

CHAPTER 9: Finance: Acquiring and Using Funds to Maximize Value
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

153

9-2b Planning Tools: Creating a Road

Map to the Future

Ratio analysis helps managers identify their firm’s current
­financial strengths and weaknesses. The next step is to
develop plans that build on the firm’s strengths and correct its weaknesses. Financial planning is an important part
of the firm’s overall planning process. Assuming that the
overall planning process has established appropriate goals
and ­objectives for the firm, financial planning must answer
the following questions:
■■

What specific assets must the firm obtain to achieve
its goals?

■■

How much additional financing will the firm need to
acquire these assets?

■■

How much financing will the firm be able to generate internally (through additional earnings), and how
much must it obtain from external sources?

■■

When will the firm need to acquire external financing?

■■

What is the best way to raise these funds?

The planning process involves input from a variety
of areas. In addition to seeking input from managers in
various functional areas of their business, financial managers usually work closely with the firm’s accountants during
the planning process.
9-2c Basic Planning Tools: Budgeted

Financial Statements and the
Cash Budget

budgeted income
statement A projection
showing how a firm’s budgeted
sales and costs will affect
expected net income. (Also called
a pro forma income statement.)

budgeted balance sheet
A projected financial statement
that forecasts the types and
amounts of assets a firm will need
to implement its future plans and
how the firm will finance those
assets. (Also called a pro forma
balance sheet.)

cash budget A detailed
forecast of future cash flows
that helps financial managers
identify when their firm is likely to
experience temporary shortages
or surpluses of cash.

154

The budgeting process
provides financial managers with much of the information they need for
financial planning. The

budgeted
income
state­ment and budgeted balance sheet
are two key financial planning tools. Also called pro
forma financial statements,
they provide a framework
for analyzing the impact
of the firm’s plans on the
financing needs of the
company.
■

T he budgeted income
statement uses information from the sales

■■

budget and various cost budgets (as well as other
assumptions) to develop a forecast of net income for
the planning period. This can help the firm evaluate
how much internal financing (funds generated by
earnings) will be available.
The budgeted balance sheet forecasts the types and
amounts of assets a firm will need to implement its
future plans. It also helps financial managers determine the amount of additional financing (liabilities
and owners’ equity) the firm must arrange to acquire
those assets.

The cash budget is another important financial
planning tool. Cash budgets normally cover a one-year
period and show projected cash inflows and outflows for
each month. Financial managers use cash budgets to get
a better understanding of the timing of cash flows within
the planning period. This is i­mportant because most firms
experience uneven inflows and outflows of cash over the
course of a year, which can lead to cash shortages and
cash surpluses. For example, the video game industry
experiences sizable increases in cash flows when Sony
and Microsoft introduce new versions of their PlayStation
and Xbox gaming platforms (typically every 3–4 years);
when new blockbuster games (such as Madden NFL) are
released; and in November and December, during which
holiday sales often exceed sales from the rest of the year.7
Projecting cash flows helps financial managers determine
when the firm is likely to need additional funds to meet
short-term cash shortages, and when surpluses of cash
will be available to pay off loans or to invest in other assets.
Even firms with growing sales can experience cash
flow problems, especially if many of their customers buy
on credit. To meet increasing sales levels, a growing firm
must hire more labor and buy more supplies. These workers and suppliers may expect to be paid long before the
company’s customers pay their bills, leading to a temporary cash crunch.
Exhibit 9.3 illustrates this type of situation by presenting a partial cash budget for a hypothetical firm
called ­Oze-Moore. The cash budget shows that, despite its increasing sales, Oze-Moore will have cash
shortages in March and April. Knowing this in advance
gives financial managers time to find the best sources
of short-term financing to cover these shortages. The
cash budget also shows that Oze-Moore will experience a big cash surplus in May as the customers start
paying for the purchases they made in March and April.
Knowing this ahead of time helps managers forecast
when they will be able to repay the loans they took
out to cover their previous cash s­ hortages. It also gives

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Exhibit 9.3

Cash Budget for Oze-Moore

them time to evaluate short-term interest-earning
investments they could make to temporarily “park”
their surplus cash.

9-3

FINDING FUNDS:
WHAT ARE THE OPTIONS?

Once financial managers have identified the amount
of financial capital needed to carry out their firm’s
plans, the next step is to determine which sources of
funds to tap. The most appropriate sources of funds
for a business depend on several factors. One of the
most important considerations is the firm’s stage of
development. Start-up firms face different challenges
and have different needs than more established firms.
Another factor is the reason the funds are needed.
Funds used to meet short-term needs, such as meeting
payroll, paying suppliers, or paying taxes, typically come
from different sources than funds used to finance major
investments in plants, property, and equipment.
The financing options available to new firms are generally much more limited than those available to more
mature firms with an established track record. In fact, for

start-up firms the main source of funds is likely to be the
personal wealth of the owner (or owners), s­ upplemented
by loans from relatives and friends. Given how risky new
business ventures are, banks and other e­ stablished lenders often hesitate to make loans to new, unproven companies. (In some cases, the Small Business A
­ dministration
overcomes this reluctance by guaranteeing loans for
start-ups and other small businesses that satisfy its criteria.) As the firms grow and become more established, they
typically are able to obtain financing from other sources.
Some start-ups with the potential for generating
rapid growth may be able to attract funds from wealthy
individuals, called angel investors, or from venture capital firms. Both angel investors and venture capitalists
typically invest in risky opportunities that offer the possibility of high rates of return. Both also typically provide
funds in exchange for a share of ownership.
9-3a 
Sources of Short-Term Financing:

Meeting Needs for Cash

Firms that have survived the start-up phase of the business
life cycle often have several sources of short-term financing. Let’s take a look at some of the most common options.
CHAPTER 9: Finance: Acquiring and Using Funds to Maximize Value

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

155

Investing in a Better Future for Bigger
Returns? Almost…
Of the $11 trillion in investment funds held today, $83 billion is held in socially responsible funds that invest in businesses
with environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) missions and products. These funds not only invest in
socially responsible companies; they actively avoid investing in firms that sell products that green investors see as
detrimental to the environment or to society (such as guns, cigarettes, alcohol, and gambling).
The knock on ESG investing is that green products are more expensive and less profitable, so investors often reap lower
returns. Critics argue that 65% of ESG funds have achieved below average returns over the last decade, but proponents
counter that ESG companies have performed much better in recent years. Indeed, the MSCI KLD Social Index fund has
averaged a 15.4% return the last three years, compared to 15.2% for the S&P 500, a standard investment benchmark.
So if you wanted to invest in ESG companies and investment funds, what should you expect? Morningstar analyst David
Kathman says, “There isn’t really strong evidence that it hurts or helps. It’s basically neutral.” Calvert Investments is one
of the earliest ESG investment funds. It’s CEO, John Steur, agrees with Kathman’s analysis: “If you invest sustainably,
you’ve got just as good a chance of beating the market or not.”
In short, ESG companies are just as likely as other companies to make a profit, but they’re also just as likely to produce
losses. On top of that, sustainable companies are not always what they seem. British Petroleum, Volkswagen, and
Chipotle were all known as socially responsible companies before BP caused a massive oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico;
VW cheated on diesel engine pollution testing; and Chipotle spurred Escherichia coli (E. coli) outbreaks across the
country.8

Trade Credit One of the most important sources
of short-term financing for many firms is trade credit,
which arises when suppliers ship materials, parts, or goods
to a firm without requiring payment at the time of delivery.
By allowing the firms to “buy now, pay later,” they help the
firm conserve its existing cash, thus avoiding the need to
acquire funds from other sources.
In most cases, the terms of trade credit are presented
on the invoice the supplier ­includes with the shipment.
For example, the ­invoice might list the terms as 2/10 net
30. The “net 30” indicates that the supplier allows the buyer
30 days before payment is
due. But the “2/10” tells the
trade credit Spontaneous
buyer that the supplier is
financing granted by sellers when
offering a 2% discount off
they deliver goods and services
the invoice price if the buyer
to customers without requiring
pays within 10 days.
immediate payment.
At first glance, the 2%
spontaneous financing
discount
in our example
Financing that arises during
may not seem like a big
the natural course of business
without the need for special
deal. But failing to take
arrangements.
the discount can be very
costly. Consider the terms
factor A company that
provides short-term financing to
we mentioned above:
firms by purchasing their accounts
2/10, net 30. If the firm fails
receivables at a discount.
to pay within 10 days, it

156

loses the discount and must pay the full amount 20 days
later. Paying 2% more for the use of funds for only 20 days
is equivalent to an annual finance charge of over 37%!9
Suppliers will grant trade credit only after they’ve
evaluated the creditworthiness of the firm. But once
they’ve granted this credit to a company, they generally
continue offering it as long as the firm satisfies the terms
of the credit arrangements. Trade credit is sometimes called
spontaneous financing because it is granted when the
company places its orders without requiring any a­ dditional
paperwork or special arrangements. The level of trade credit
automatically adjusts as business conditions change and the
company places larger or smaller orders with its suppliers.
Although firms of all sizes use this type of financing, trade
credit is a particularly important source of financing for small
businesses. The Federal Reserve Board’s Survey of Small Business Finances indicates that about 60% of small firms rely on
trade credit as a major source of short-term financial capital.10

Factoring The money that customers owe a firm when
they buy on credit shows up in accounts receivable on the
company’s balance sheet. A factor buys the accounts receivables of other firms. The factor makes a profit by purchasing the receivables at a discount and collecting the
full amount from the firm’s customers.
Although firms that use factors don’t receive the full
amount their customers owe, factoring offers some definite

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Short-Term Bank Loans Banks are another common
source of short-term business financing. Short-term bank
loans are usually due in 30 to 90 days, though they can be
up to a year in length. When a firm negotiates a loan with a
bank, it signs a promissory note, which specifies the length
of the loan, the rate of interest the firm must pay, and other
terms and conditions of the loan. Banks sometimes require
firms to pledge collateral, such as inventories or accounts
receivable, to back the loan. That way, if the borrower fails
to make the required payments, the bank has a claim on
specific assets that can be used to pay off the amount due.
Rather than going through the hassle of negotiating a
separate loan each time they need more funds, many firms
work out arrangements with their bankers to obtain preapproval so that they can draw on funds as n
­ eeded. One
way they do this is by establishing a line of credit. Under
this arrangement, a bank agrees to provide the firm with
funds up to some specified limit, as long as the borrower’s
credit situation doesn’t deteriorate, and the bank has sufficient funds—conditions that aren’t always met, as the
recent financial meltdown clearly illustrated.
A revolving credit agreement is similar to a line of
credit, except that the bank makes a formal, legally binding
commitment to provide the agreed-upon funds. In essence,
a revolving credit agreement is a guaranteed line of credit.
In exchange for the binding commitment to provide the
funds, the bank requires the borrowing firm to pay a commitment fee based on the unused amount of funds. Thus,
under the terms of a revolving credit agreement, the firm
will pay interest on any funds it borrows, and a commitment
fee on any funds it does not borrow. The commitment fee
is lower than the interest on the borrowed funds, but it can
amount to a fairly hefty charge if the firm has a large unused balance. Because of the energy industry's well-known

goodluz/Shutterstock.com

advantages. Instead of having to wait for customers to pay, the
firm gets its money almost immediately. Also, since the factor is
responsible for collection efforts, the firm using the factor may
be able to save money by eliminating its own collection department. Finally, the factor typically assumes the risk for bad
debts on any receivables it buys. However, factors typically perform a careful evaluation of the quality of accounts ­receivable
before they buy them and may refuse to buy receivables
that are high risk. Taiwan-based Foxconn Technology Group,
which manufactures iPhones for Apple, has used factoring to
provide $157 million in loans to its parts suppliers. Managing
director Jack Lee explained why this is a good business risk for
Foxconn, saying, “We know the suppliers’ business status better than anyone because we are their customer.”11 ­According
to the Commercial Finance Association, factoring has typically
provided more than $216 billion in short-term funds on an annual basis to American businesses in recent years.12

Banks are a common source of shortterm business financing. When a firm
negotiates a loan with a bank, it signs
a promissory note, which specifies the
length of the loan, the rate of interest
the firm must pay, and other terms and
conditions of the loan.

boom and bust business cycles, oil and gas producers use
funds from revolving credit agreements to pay expenses as
they explore and develop energy reserves. They pay those
funds down once production starts and revenues flow. In
2016, after oil prices dropped to $26 a barrel—one of the
lowest prices in decades—many firms were unable to repay
their revolving credit agreements. As a result, 51 US oil and
gas producers filed for bankruptcy, while another 175 firms
were at risk of not being able to repay their loans.13

Commercial Paper Well-established corporations have
some additional sources of short-term financial capital. For
instance, many large corporations with strong credit
ratings issue commercial
line of credit A financial
arrangement between a firm and a
paper, which consists
bank in which the bank pre-approves
of short-term promissory
credit up to a specified limit,
notes (IOUs). H
­istorically,
provided that the firm maintains an
commercial paper issued
­
acceptable credit rating.
by corporations has been
revolving credit
­unsecured—meaning
it
agreement A guaranteed line
isn’t backed by a pledge
of credit in which a bank makes a
binding commitment to provide
of collateral. Because it is
a business with funds up to a
normally unsecured, comspecified credit limit at any time
mercial paper is only ofduring the term of the agreement.
fered by firms with excellent
commercial paper Shortcredit ratings; firms with less
term (and usually unsecured)
than stellar financial reputapromissory notes issued by large
tions that try to issue unsecorporations.
cured commercial paper are
CHAPTER 9: Finance: Acquiring and Using Funds to Maximize Value

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

157

unlikely to find buyers. In recent years, a new class of commercial paper has emerged, called asset-backed commercial
paper, which, as its name implies, is backed by some form of
collateral.
Commercial paper can be issued for up to 270 days,
but most firms typically issue it for much shorter periods—
typically 30 days, but sometimes for as little as two days. One
key reason commercial paper is popular with companies is
that it typically carries a lower interest rate than commercial
banks charge on short-term loans. By far the biggest issuers of commercial paper are financial institutions, but other
large corporations also use this form of financing.
Why use commercial paper? According to the Consumerist, “The commercial paper market works like a credit card
for big companies. Some days they have money, and some
days they do not. So if they need money Tuesday, but will
have money Friday, they’ll go to the commercial paper market and borrow some money. Then on Friday they will pay
back the money, plus interest.”14 According to the U.S. Federal Reserve, the average rate for 30-day commercial paper
was 0.63% in February 2017.15 That means a firm would pay
$6,300 interest to use $1 million over 30 days. Commercial
paper is sold at a discount, so the interest cost is deducted up
front. In this instance, the firm would get $993,700 for 30 days,
after which it would need to pay back $1,000,000 ($993,700 1
$6,300 5 $1,000,000). Commercial paper accounted for
6.4% of all short-term corporate cash assets in October 2016
down from 11% in 2013 and 8% in 2015.16
9-3b Sources of Long-Term Funds:

Providing a Strong Financial Base

The sources of financial capital we’ve looked at so far have
been appropriate for dealing with cash needs that arise
from short-term fluctuations in cash flows. But f­inancial
managers typically seek more permanent funding to finance major investments and provide a secure financial
base for their company. Let’s take a look at some of the
more common sources of long-term funds.

Direct Investments from Owners One key source
of long-term funds for a firm is the money the owners
themselves invest in their company. For corporations, this
occurs when it sells newly issued stock—and it’s important to realize that the only time the corporation receives
financial capital from the sale of its stock is when it is initially issued. If Google issued new shares of stock, which
you bought, the funds would go to Google. But once you
own Google’s stock, if you
decide to sell your shares
retained earnings The part
to ­another investor, Google
of a firm’s net income it reinvests.
gets nothing.

158

Another way firms can meet long-term financial
needs is by reinvesting their earnings. The profits that
a firm reinvests are called retained earnings. This
source isn’t a pool of cash; it simply reflects the share
of the firm’s earnings used to finance the purchase of
assets, pay off ­liabilities, and reinvest in the business.
If you want to know how much cash a firm has, check
the figure in the cash account at the top of its balance
sheet. You’ll typically find that the value in the firm’s
cash account is quite different from the amount listed as
the retained earnings! For example, at the end of 2016,
Google had 105.1 billion in retained earnings compared
to $12.9 billion in cash and cash equivalents.17
Retained earnings are a major source of long-term capital
for many corporations, but the extent to which they are used
depends on the state of the economy. When the economy is
booming and profits are high, retained earnings tend to soar.
But when the economy slides into a recession, most corporations find they have few earnings to reinvest. For instance, in
the recession year of 2008, corporate retained earnings fell to
2$65.2 billion from $335.2 million in 2006 (negative retained
earnings occur when the loss in any one year exceeds the
accumulated retained earnings from previously profitable
years). However, as the economic recovery ensued, retained
earnings rebounded dramatically to a positive $879.3 billion
in 2010. The most recent data showed that retained earnings
were $706.9 billion in the third quarter of 2016.18
The decision to retain earnings involves a trade-off
because firms have another way to use their earnings:
they can pay out some or all of their profits to their owners by d
­ eclaring a dividend. You might think that stockholders would be unhappy with a firm that retained
most of its ­earnings, since that would mean they would
receive a ­smaller dividend. But many stockholders actually prefer their companies to reinvest earnings—at least if
­management invests them ­wisely—because ­doing so can
help finance their firm’s growth. And a growing, more profitable firm usually translates into an increase in the market
price of the firm’s stock.
Billionaire Warren Buffett’s company, Berkshire Hathaway, has n
­ ever paid dividends, choosing to reinvest all of
its substantial profits. This strategy paid off handsomely
for stockholders. During the 12-year period between
February 3, 2004, and February 2, 2017, Berkshire’s stock
soared from $90,800 to $244,330 per share.19 Despite the
fact that it paid them no dividend, you can bet that most
of Berkshire’s shareholders were pleased with the capital
gains that resulted from this strategy!

Long-Term Debt In addition to contributions from
owners, firms can also raise long-term funds by borrowing
from banks and other lenders or by issuing bonds.

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Both equity and debt financing
have
advantages and drawdifferent types of long-term loans,
“ When you
backs.
The
extent to which a firm
but the most typical arrangement—­
combine ignorance
relies on various forms of debt
sometimes simply called a term
and leverage, you
and equity to satisfy its financing
loan—calls for a regular schedule of
needs is called that firm’s capital
get some pretty
fixed payments sufficient to ensure
structure. To simplify our disthat the principal (the amount
interesting results.”
cussion, we’ll focus mainly on the
initially borrowed) and interest are
— WA R R E N B U F F E T T
capital structure of corporations,
repaid by the end of the loan’s term.
but many of the basic principles
Lenders often impose requireapply to o
­ ther forms of ownership.
ments on long-term loans to ensure
repayment. Most lenders require that the loans be backed
9-4a Pros and Cons of Debt Financing
by a pledge of some type of collateral. Banks and other
lenders also often include covenants in their loan agreeWhen a firm borrows funds, it enters into a contractual
ments. A covenant is a requirement a lender imposes
agreement with the lenders. This arrangement creates
on the borrower as a condition of the loan. One coma legally binding requirement to repay the money bormon covenant requires the borrower to carry a specified
rowed (called the principal) plus interest. These payments
amount of liability insurance. Another requires the bortake precedence over any payments to owners. Lenders
rower to agree not to borrow any additional funds until
often require the firm to pledge collateral, such as real
the current loan is paid off. Covenants sometimes even
estate, financial securities, or equipment, to back the loan.
restrict the size of bonuses or pay raises the firm can grant
Should the firm be unable to make the required payto employees. The purpose of covenants is to protect
ments, the lenders can use this collateral to recover what
creditors by preventing the borrower from pursuing polithey are owed. When Arch Coal, the second largest coal
cies that might undermine its ability to repay the loan.
mining company in the United States, went bankrupt,
While covenants are great for lenders, borrowers often
shareholders were completely wiped out. According to
view them as highly restrictive.20
the company, "Arch’s existing stock will be canceled and
Corporate Bonds Rather than borrow from banks
the senior lenders will receive the substantial majority
or other lenders, corporations sometimes issue their
of the new stock in the reorganized Arch Coal." In other
own formal IOUs, called corporate bonds, which they
words, lenders' financial concerns took precedence over
sell to investors. Bonds often have due dates (maturiowners (that is, shareholders).21
ties) of ten or more years after issuance. Like corporate
Debt financing offers some advantages to firms. For
stock, bonds are marketable, meaning that bondholders
instance, the interest payments a firm makes on debt are a
can sell them to other investors before they mature.
tax-deductible expense. So Uncle Sam (in the form of the
But it is important to realize that unlike shares of stock,
IRS) subsidizes the interest payments. For example, if the
which represent ownership in a corporation, bonds are
corporation’s tax rate is 30%, then each dollar of ­interest
certificates of debt.
expense reduces the firm’s taxes by $0.30—­meaning the
true cost to the firm of
each dollar of interest is
9-4
covenant A restriction
only $0.70.

Term Loans There are many

LEVERAGE AND CAPITAL
STRUCTURE: HOW MUCH DEBT
IS TOO MUCH DEBT?

Most firms use a combination of equity and debt
­financing to acquire needed assets and to finance their
operations. Owners provide equity financing, while creditors (lenders) provide debt financing. Thus, when a company issues and sells new stock or uses retained earnings
to meet its financial needs, it is using equity financing. But
when it takes out a bank loan, or issues and sells corporate
bonds, it is relying on debt financing.

Another advantage of
debt is that it enables the
firm to acquire additional
funds without requiring
existing stockholders to
invest more of their own
money or the sale of stock
to new investors (which
would dilute the ownership of existing owners).
Moreover, if the firm invests the borrowed funds

lenders impose on borrowers as a
condition of providing long-term
debt financing.

equity financing Funds
provided by the owners of a
company.

debt financing Funds
provided by lenders (creditors).

capital structure The mix
of equity and debt financing a
firm uses to meet its permanent
financing needs.

CHAPTER 9: Finance: Acquiring and Using Funds to Maximize Value
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

159

P S S T, C A N Y OU L E N D M E $ 4 0 BIL L IO N — C HE A P — F OR A GRE AT DE A L?
financing not an option, Dell turned to debt financing (that
is, bonds).

In September 2016, Dell Inc., maker of computers,
servers, and network technologies, completed a $60
billion acquisition of EMC Corporation, a manufacturer and provider of data storage technology and
services. So how did Dell fund this enormous deal using cash,
equity, and debt financing?

Bond investors were concerned about Dell’s existing junk
bonds. In 2013, Dell was publicly owned. To become privately
owned, it sold $15 billion in junk bonds to help purchase the
$24 billion in outstanding stock owned by all shareholders.
Junk bonds, like credit cards, require a much higher interest
payment because of a higher default risk. With $15 billion in
existing junk bonds, investors wanted assurance that new
Dell bonds would be a sound investment. Working with its
bankers, Dell showed bond investors that the strong cash flows
of the combined companies would easily pay the additional
interest associated with new bonds. This permitted Dell to
issue investment-grade bonds, which have significantly lower
interest payments.

Dell Inc. didn’t have $60 billion in cash. But together, Dell
and EMC had somewhere between $12 billion and $21
billion in cash on their balance sheets. Dell Inc. and the
resulting company, Dell Technologies, are private, so these
are estimates. We do know, however, that founder and CEO
Michael Dell and his personal investment partners contributed
$4.25 billion in cash and that Dell Inc. and EMC began selling
nonstrategic parts of their businesses hoping to raise $13
billion in cash.

Dell sold the bonds in stages. By March 2016, it had sold $9.4
billion in investment-grade bonds—$2 billion more than
it thought its investors would buy. Encouraged by higher
demand, it went back to the markets in May 2016 with $16
billion in investment-grade bonds. Demand from investors was
incredible. Dell sold $20 billion in bonds, well short of the $80
billion in orders placed that day.

What about equity financing? Because Dell was privately
owned (with no stock), it couldn’t swap Dell stock for EMC
stock (EMC was publicly owned). Likewise, because Dell
intended to remain private following the acquisition, it
couldn’t raise funds by selling new stock reflecting the
value of the newly combined companies. With equity

majestic b/Shutterstock.com

The enormous demand for investment-grade bonds made it
easier to sell the final two rounds of debt financing. At the
end of May, Dell obtained a syndicated loan (a corporate
loan funded across several different banks), bringing in $5
billion in cash. Then in June, Dell sold investors $3.25 billion
in junk bonds.

profitably, the use of debt can substantially improve the
return on equity to the s­ hareholders. We’ll illustrate this
result in our discussion of financial leverage.
One obvious disadvantage of debt is the requirement
to make fixed payments. This can create real problems
when the firm finds itself in an unexpectedly tight financial
situation. In bad times, required interest payments can eat
up most (or all) of the earnings, leaving little or no return
to the firm’s owners. And if the firm is unable to meet these
payments, its creditors can force it into bankruptcy.

160

In rough numbers, Dell’s $60 billion acquisition of EMC was
financed with approximately $20 billion in cash (75% coming
from selling off existing businesses) and $40 billion in debt
financing (75% coming from investment grade bonds). The new
company, Dell Technologies, has 140,000 employees and an
estimated revenue of $74 billion a year.22

As we mentioned earlier, another disadvantage of
debt financing is that creditors often impose covenants
on the borrower. These covenants can hamper the firm’s
flexibility and might result in unintended problems. For example, a covenant that restricts bonuses and pay raises to
employees might undermine the morale of key workers
and tempt them to seek employment elsewhere. Similarly,
restrictions on dividends or on the ability of the firm to
borrow additional funds may make it difficult for the firm
to raise more money.

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

9-4b Pros and Cons of Equity Financing
For corporations, equity financing comes from two major
sources: retained earnings and money directly invested by
stockholders who purchase newly issued stock. Equity financing is more flexible and less risky than debt financing.
Unlike debt, equity imposes no required payments. A firm
can skip dividend payments to stockholders without having to worry that it will be pushed into bankruptcy. And a
firm doesn’t have to agree to burdensome covenants to
acquire equity funds.
On the other hand, equity financing doesn’t yield the
same tax benefits as debt financing. In addition, existing
owners might not want a firm to issue more stock, since
doing so might dilute their share of ownership. Finally, a
company that relies mainly on equity financing forgoes the
opportunity to use financial leverage. But as we’ve already
noted, leverage can be a two-edged sword. We’ll illustrate
the risks and rewards of leverage in our next section.
9-4c Financial Leverage: Using Debt

to Magnify Gains (and Losses)

As mentioned in our discussion of ratios, firms that rely on
a lot of debt in their capital structure are said to be highly
leveraged. The main advantage of financial leverage is that it
magnifies the return on the stockholders’ investment when
times are good. Its main disadvantage is that it also reduces
the financial return to stockholders when times are bad.
Let’s illustrate both the advantages and disadvantages of financial leverage with a simple example.
Exhibit 9.4 shows the revenues, expenses, and earnings

that two firms—Eck-Witty Corporation and Oze-Moore
­International—would experience for two different levels
of sales, one representing a strong year and the other a
weak year. To make the impact of leverage easy to see,
we’ll assume that Eck-Witty and Oze-Moore are identical
in all respects except their capital structure. In particular,
our example assumes that the two companies have the
same amount of assets and experienced exactly the same
­earnings before interest and taxes (abbreviated as EBIT).
Thus, any differences in the net income of these firms
results from differences in their use of debt and equity
­financing. We’ll use return on equity (ROE) to measure
the financial return each firm offers its stockholders. (See
­Exhibit 9.2 if you need a reminder about how to interpret
or compute this ratio.)
Note that both firms have a total of $1 million in
assets, but they’ve financed the purchase of their assets
in very different ways. Eck-Witty used only common stock
and retained earnings in its capital structure, so it has
$1 million in equity financing and no debt. Oze-Moore’s
capital structure consists of $200,000 in owners’ equity and
$800,000 in debt, so it is highly leveraged. The interest rate
on its debt is 10%, so Oze-Moore has to make required
interest payments of $80,000 per year to its lenders. Both
companies must pay taxes equal to 25% of their earnings,
but Oze-Moore’s total tax bill will be lower than Eck-Witty’s
because its interest payments are tax-deductible.
As Exhibit 9.4 shows, when sales are strong, OzeMoore’s use of leverage really pays off. Eck-Witty’s ROE
of 12% under the strong sales scenario is very good, but
it pales in comparison to the 30% return Oze-Moore
generates for its owners under the same scenario.

Exhibit 9.4

How Financial Leverage Affects the Return on Equity
Eck-Witty (Capital structure is all only equity)
Equity (Funds supplied by owners)
Debt (Funds obtained by borrowing)

EBIT
Interest
Taxable income
Taxes
After Tax Earnings
ROE

$1,000,000
$0
Strong Sales

Weak Sales

$160,000
0
160,000
40,000
120,000
12.0%
%

$80,000
0
80,000
20,000
60,000
6%
%

Eck-Witty’s use of only equity financing
results in a lower ROE than Oze-Moore’s
when sales are strong. But it enjoys better
ROE than Oze-Moore when sales are weak.

Oze-Moore (Capital structure is 20% equity and 80% debt)
Equity (Funds supplied by owners)
Debt (Funds obtained by borrowing)

EBIT
Interest
Taxable income
Taxes
After Tax Earnings
ROE

$200,000
$800,000

Strong Sales

Weak Sales

$160,000
80,000
80,000
20,000
60,000
30.0%
%

$80,000
80,000
0
0
0
0.0%
%

Oze-Moore's use of leverage magnifies
ROE when sales are strong. But the required
interest payments of $80,000 completely wipes
out taxable income and after-tax earnings.

CHAPTER 9: Finance: Acquiring and Using Funds to Maximize Value
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

161

Saudi Arabia Invests $3.5 Billion toward Uber’s
Global Expansion

ESB Professional/Shutterstock.com

App-based ride sharing service Uber is in 460 cities in 69
countries. Every time it expands or enters a new market, Uber
needs a considerable amount of cash to fund signing bonuses

for new drivers (to give them time to build their businesses) and
to woo first-time riders with sizable discounts.
Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund, a sovereign fund
controlled by the Saudi government, invested $3.5 billion in Uber
in 2016. Co-founder and former CEO Travis Kalanick said, “We
appreciate the vote of confidence in our business as we continue
to expand our global presence.” Uber raises hundreds of millions
of dollars several times a year to pay for its growing operations.
Since its startup seven years ago, Uber has raised $11 billion from
investors to fund its skyrocketing growth around the world.
As a result, Uber will invest $250 million to expand operations in
Saudi Arabia to serve 15 cities in nine regions. By the end of 2016,
Uber was already available in four more Saudi cities: Al-Qassim,
Al-Kharj, Taif, and Al-Ahsa.23

Oze-Moore’s higher ROE occurs bethat recent financial history clearly
cause its interest payments are fixed.
illustrates. During the economic
“Debt is one person’s
It pays its creditors $80,000—no
boom between 2003 and early
liability, but another
more, no less—whether EBIT is high
2007, many companies found
person’s asset.”
or low. When Oze-Moore can borrow
that the use of leverage magnified
funds at an interest rate of 10% and
their ROEs. When the economy
—NOBEL PRIZE–WINNING
invest them in assets that earn more
slowed, the ­required interest and
E C O N O M I S T PA U L K RUGM A N
than 10% (as it does in the strong
principal payments on their debt
sales scenario), the extra return goes
became a heavy burden on highly
to the owners even though creditors provided the funds.
leveraged firms. As we mentioned at the beginning of this
This clearly adds a significant boost to the returns enjoyed
chapter, many of these firms ended up in bankruptcy.
by the stockholders!
By late 2008, many of the highly leveraged firms that
But in the weak sales scenario, the results are quite difsurvived the initial carnage were frantically looking for
ferent. In this case, the $80,000 of required interest payments
ways to replace much of the debt in their capital struceats up all of Oze-Moore’s earnings, leaving it with no net
ture with more equity—a strategy known as deleveraging.
income for its owners, so its ROE is zero. If EBIT had been
Unfortunately, most companies found deleveraging to
anything less than $80,000, O
­ ze-Moore wouldn’t have had
be a slow and painful process. Their poor financial perforenough earnings to cover the interest—and if it failed to
mance during the financial meltdown meant their earnings
come up with the money to pay its creditors, they could
were low (or even negative), so they couldn’t use retained
force it into bankruptcy. This illustrates the risk associated
earnings to build their equity capital. And the plummeting
with financial leverage. In comparison, notice that Eck-Witty
stock market and lack of investor confidence made it diffistill earns a positive ROE for
cult to sell new stock. The moral of the story: if the finanits owners in the weak sales
cial returns of leverage seem too good to be true, over the
Dodd-Frank Act A law
scenario;
granted,
an
ROE
long run they probably are. Sound financial management
enacted in the aftermath of the
of 6% isn’t spectacular, but
requires keeping a level head and considering the riskiness
financial crisis of 2008–2009
that strengthened government
it sure beats the 0% return
of financial decisions as well as their return.24
oversight of financial markets
Oze-Moore experienced!
In the wake of the ­financial crisis, the federal governand placed limitations on risky
Our
leverage
example
ment
enacted new legislation designed to reduce the likelifinancial strategies such as heavy
contains
important
lessons
hood
of
similar meltdowns in the future. The Dodd-Frank
reliance on leverage.
for the real world—lessons
Act included requirements for large firms in the financial

162

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

9-5

larry1235/Shutterstock.com

sector to hold more equity and less debt in their capital
structures and established a Financial Stability Oversight
Council to monitor financial markets and to identify and respond to emerging risks. It also created a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to protect consumers from predatory
lending practices by financial institutions.25

ACQUIRING AND MANAGING
CURRENT ASSETS

Let’s turn our attention to how a firm determines the
amount and type of current assets to hold. As we’ll see,
holding current assets involves trade-off; either too much
or too little of these assets can spell trouble.

A U.S. Treasury bill's Treasury yield is
its return on investment expressed as a
percentage. In April 2017, the Treasury
yield on a 10-year T-bill was 2.26%.

9-5a Managing Cash: Is It Possible to Have

Too Much Money?

A company must have cash to pay its workers, suppliers,
creditors, and taxes. Many firms also need cash to pay dividends. And most firms also want to hold enough cash to
meet unexpected contingencies. But cash has one serious
shortcoming compared to other assets: it earns little or
no return. If a firm holds much more cash than needed to
meet its required payments, stockholders are likely to ask
why the excess cash isn’t being invested in more profitable
assets. And if the firm can’t find a profitable way to invest
the money, the stockholders are likely to ask management
why it doesn’t use the excess cash to pay them a higher
dividend—most shareholders can think of plenty of ways
they’d like to use the cash!
In the narrowest sense, a firm’s cash refers to its holdings of currency (paper money and coins issued by the
government) plus demand deposits (the balance in its
checking account). However, when most firms report
their cash holdings on their balance sheet, they take a
broader view, i­ncluding cash equivalents along with

“The Dodd-Frank Act was 2,319
pages in length. Apparently
there was a lot about our
financial system in 2010 that
Congress wanted to change!”
— D AV I D S K E E L , I N T H E N E W
FINANCIAL DEAL

their actual cash. Cash equivalents are very safe and highly
liquid assets that can be converted into cash quickly and
easily. Commercial paper, U.S. Treasury Bills (T-bills), and
money market mutual funds are among the most popular
cash equivalents. The advantage of these cash equivalents
is that they offer a better financial return (in the form of
interest) than currency or demand deposits.
As we explained in our discussion of short-term
­sources of funds, major corporations with strong credit
ratings often sell commercial paper to raise needed shortterm funds. On the other side of such transactions are
firms that buy commercial paper as part of their portfolio
of cash equivalents because—at least under normal economic conditions—it is a safe and liquid way to earn some
interest. But during economic downturns the appeal of
commercial paper as a cash equivalent plummets due to
increased risk.
U.S. Treasury Bills, or ­“T-bills,” are short-term
IOUs issued by the U.S. government. Most T-bills mature
(come due) in 4, 13, or 26 weeks. There is a very active
­secondary market for T-bills, meaning that their owners can
sell them to other investors
before they mature. Thus,
T-bills are highly liquid. And,
cash equivalents Safe and
highly liquid assets that many
unlike commercial paper,
firms list with their cash holdings
T-bills are backed by the
­
on their balance sheet.
U.S. government, so they
U.S. Treasury bills
are ­essentially risk-free. The
(T-bills)
safety and liquidity of T-bills
Short-term marketable IOUs
make them very attractive
issued by the U.S. federal
cash equivalents even in
government.
times of economic distress.
CHAPTER 9: Finance: Acquiring and Using Funds to Maximize Value

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

163

Stock Dividends: Don’t Start—Because You Can’t Stop
Financial managers have a fiduciary duty to act in the best
interest of company ownership by increasing the value of the
firm. In publicly-owned firms, financial managers accomplish
that by increasing the firm’s stock price in three ways.
First, earn higher profits. The stock of a company with consistently high profits is more valuable than the stock of a consistently less-profitable firm.
Second, buy back existing shares of publicly held (that is,
outstanding) company stock. With fewer shares outstanding,
earnings per share (EPS) will rise. Since EPS is a key metric in
valuing stock performance, a rising EPS frequently leads to
higher stock prices.
With corporate profits falling since 2014 and stock indices at
all-time highs (making stock buybacks more expensive), companies
are increasingly using a third method: paying cash dividends, that
is, a portion of annual profits, directly to shareholders.

Money market mutual funds raise money by
selling shares to large numbers of investors. They then
pool these funds to purchase a portfolio of short-term, liquid securities. (In fact, money market mutual funds often
include large holdings of commercial paper and T-bills.)
Money market mutual funds are an affordable way for
small investors to get into the market for securities, which
would otherwise be beyond their means. This affordability
also makes these funds a particularly attractive cash equivalent for smaller firms.
9-5b Managing Accounts Receivable:

Pay Me Now or Pay Me Later

Accounts receivable represents what customers who
buy on credit owe the firm. Allowing customers to buy
on credit can significantly increase sales. However, as our
­discussion of the cash budget showed, credit sales can create cash flow problems because they delay the receipt of
cash the firm needs to meet its financial obligations. Customers who pay late or don’t pay at all only exacerbate the
problem. So it’s important
for firms to have a wellmoney market mutual
thought-out policy that
funds A mutual fund that pools
balances the advantages
funds from many investors and
of ­offering credit with the
uses these funds to purchase very
costs. The key elements of
safe, highly liquid securities.
this policy should include:

164

Young and struggling companies often don’t pay dividends,
choosing instead to invest profits (that is, retained earnings)
back into the company to fund growth, develop new products,
or increase quality. Once firms start paying dividends, there’s a
strong expectation that they won’t stop. Simply put, investors see
dividends as a long-term promise to share profits with shareholders.
According to Howard Silverblatt at S&P Dow Jones Indices, “[Stock]
buybacks can be turned on and off via the phone. [But once] you
increase a dividend you have to keep paying the higher rate.”
So, even though its EPS dropped 76% from 2015 to 2016,
Caterpillar, which manufactures large earth-moving
equipment, declared a $3.08 per share dividend in 2016,
compared to $3.01 in 2015. A company spokesperson said,
“Caterpillar has paid a cash dividend every year since the
company was formed and has paid a quarterly dividend since
1933.” Moreover, “Caterpillar has paid higher dividends to its
shareholders for 23 consecutive years . . . ,” including 2016.26

■■

Setting credit terms: For how long should the firm extend
credit? What type of cash discount should the firm offer
to encourage early payments?

■■

Establishing credit standards: How should the firm
decide which customers qualify for credit? What type
of credit information should it require? How strict
should its standards be?

■■

Deciding on an appropriate collection policy: How
aggressive should the firm be at collecting past-due
­accounts? At what point does it make sense to take
(or at least threaten to take) legal action against
late-­paying customers, or to turn over the accounts
to collection agencies? When does it make sense to
work out compromises?

In each area, financial managers face trade-offs. For
example, a firm that extends credit for only 30 days will
­receive its payments sooner than a firm that allows customers 90 days. But setting short credit periods may also
result in lost sales. Similarly, setting high credit standards
reduces the likelihood a firm will have problems with
customers who pay late (or not at all). However, strict
standards may prevent many good customers from getting credit, resulting in lower sales. Finally, an aggressive
collection policy may help the firm collect payments
that it would otherwise lose. But an aggressive policy is
costly, and it might alienate customers who make honest mistakes, causing them to take future business to
competitors.

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Some small businesses have found that being flexible and
creative about the form of payment can help them get at least
some of what they are owed. Barter arrangements sometimes
work better than demanding cash—­especially in troubled
times such as the recent recession. At Molasses Books, a used
book store in Brooklyn, New York, customers sometimes pay
for books with coffee, wine, or beer. When asked how many
books someone can buy with alcohol, employee Dave Morse
said, “Depends how cheap the beer!”27

to shut down all of its Japanese auto assembly lines for six
days in February 2016 after an explosion at Aichi Steel shut
down production, depriving Toyota’s factories of the steel
needed to make key auto parts. If Toyota held larger inventories, it might have been able to continue operating its
assembly lines until Aichi Steel resumed shipments.28

9-6

9-5c Managing Inventories:

CAPITAL BUDGETING:
IN IT FOR THE LONG HAUL

We’ll conclude the chapter with a look at how firms evaluate
proposals to invest in long-term assets or undertake major
new projects. Capital budgeting refers to the procedure
a firm uses to plan for investments in assets or projects that
it expects will yield benefits for more than a year. GameStop,
an online and brick-and-mortar retailer of video games,
pop culture collectibles, and consumer electronics, made
$160 million in capital investments in 2016, to refurbish and
expand its 6,900 stores across 14 countries.29 The capital
budgeting process evaluates proposals such as:

Taking Stock of the Situation

Inventories are stocks of finished goods, work-in-process,
parts, and materials that firms hold as a part of doing business. Clearly, businesses must hold inventories to operate. For
example, you’d probably be disappointed if you visited a Best
Buy store and were confronted with empty shelves rather than
with a wide array of electronic gadgets to compare and try
out. Similarly, a manufacturing firm wouldn’t be able to assemble its products without an inventory of parts and materials.
But for many firms, the costs of storing, handling, and
insuring inventory items are significant expenses. In recent
years, many manufacturing firms have become very aggressive about keeping inventories as low as possible in
an attempt to reduce costs and improve efficiency. Such
“lean” inventory policies can be very effective, but they
leave the firm vulnerable to supply disruptions. Toyota had

■   Replacing old machinery and equipment with new

models to reduce cost and improve the efficiency of
current operations
■   Buying additional plant, machinery, and equipment to

expand production capacity in existing markets
■   Investing in plant, property, and equipment needed to

expand into new markets
■   Installing new, or modifying existing, plant and

equipment to achieve goals not directly related to
expanding production, such as reducing pollution or
improving worker safety
The number of capital budgeting proposals a firm considers each year can be quite large. But it’s unlikely that all
proposals will be worth pursuing. How do financial managers decide whether or not to accept a proposal?

Northfoto/Shutterstock.com

9-6a Evaluating Capital Budgeting Proposals

In 2016, GameStop invested $160 million
in refurbishing and expanding 6,900 retail
locations such as this New York City store.

Financial managers measure the benefits and costs of longterm investment proposals in terms of the cash flows they
generate. These cash flows are likely to be negative at the
start of a project because money must be spent to get a
long-term investment project up and running before it
begins generating positive cash flows. But a project must
eventually generate enough
positive cash flows to more
capital budgeting The
than offset these negative
process a firm uses to evaluate
initial cash outflows if it is to
long-term investment proposals.
benefit the company.
CHAPTER 9: Finance: Acquiring and Using Funds to Maximize Value

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

165

The Alternative Universe of Negative Interest Rates
Banking is simple. Put money for living expenses in a checking
account. Put the rest in a savings account so it can earn interest
from the bank. Pay the bank interest when taking out loans.

lower interest rates for consumer and business loans. At lower
rates, more money is borrowed and then spent, hopefully
growing the economy.

But under negative interest rates, banking gets turned upside
down. With negative rates, you pay the bank interest on your
savings. Heike Hofmann, who runs a fruit and vegetable stand
in Korschenbroich, Germany,
considered it “madness” when
negative rates made her savings
shrink each month rather than
grow. She said, “Every time I check
my savings account, It makes me
want to cry.” Under negative
interest rates, the bank pays you
interest when you borrow! Hans
Christensen of Aalborg, Denmark
has a negative 0.0562% interest
rate on his mortgage. So instead of
Iva
paying interest each month, the bank
na
M
ili c
pays him approximately 83 Kroner ($38).
/S
h

Central banks use negative interest rates when economies are not
growing, or even worse, are shrinking. In these circumstances,
think of negative interest rates as lower interest rates on steroids.
Steroids, while bad for your health, amplify muscle growth and
strength gains. Similarly, negative interest rates are supposed
to amplify economic growth by shrinking
savings and rewarding borrowing,
both of which should encourage
spending.

ut

te

r

sto
To understand why negative interest rates
ck
.co
m
exist, we have to distinguish between commercial
banks (where consumers and businesses bank) and
central banks run by governments. Commercial banks have
accounts with central banks so they can borrow money or
make deposits at rates determined by the central banks. When
an economy is growing slowly, central banks lower the interest
rates they charge commercial banks. Commercial banks then

9-6b Accounting for the Time Value of Money
One of the most challenging aspects of the evaluation of
a long-term project’s cash flows is that they are spread out
over a number of years. When financial managers compare
cash flows that occur at different times, they must take the
time value of money into account. The time value of
money reflects the fact that, from a financial manager’s perspective, a dollar received
today is worth more than a
time value of money The
dollar received in the future
principle that a dollar received
today is worth more than a dollar
because the sooner you
received in the future.
receive a sum of money,
the sooner you can put
certificate of deposit (CD)
An interest-earning deposit that
that money to work to earn
requires the funds to remain
even more money.
deposited for a fixed term. Withdrawal
Suppose, for examof the funds before the term expires
ple,
that you were given
results in a financial penalty.
the choice of receiving

166

Do negative rates work? Or, like
steroids, are there harmful side effects?
US Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen
says, “I would judge they seem to have
mixed effects.” But Lars Rhode, Governor
of the Danish Central Bank (which has
used negative rates since 2012), says, “There’s
no sharp, disruptive movement when you pass
below zero. It’s just working like very low interest
rates.” Still, in some countries, people are saving more even
as their savings shrink. And mortgage loans, which pay borrowers,
are fueling surges in house prices.
In the end, says Erik Nielsen, chief economist at Danish bank
UniCredit, negative interest rates are “not the catastrophe that
some people would have thought. But you’re playing with fire.”30

$1,000 either today or the same amount one year from
today. If you think like a financial manager, this choice
is a no-brainer! Let’s be conservative and say that if you
receive the money today you can deposit it in an insured one-year certificate of deposit (CD) at your
local bank that pays 4% interest. (A CD is similar to a
savings account, except that it requires the funds to remain on deposit for a fixed term; in our example, the
term is one year. You would incur a penalty if you withdrew your funds early.) Investing in your 4% CD means
that a year from today you would have $1,040 (the
$1,000 you deposited plus $40 in interest). But if you
wait until next year to receive the $1,000, you’ll lose the
opportunity to earn that $40 in interest. Clearly, receiving the cash today is the better option.
Because money has a time value, a cash flow’s value
depends not only on the amount of cash received but also
on when it is received. Financial managers compare cash
flows occurring at different times by converting them to

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Exhibit 9.5

 ow a Present Value of $10,000 Grows to a Future
H
Value of $11,255.09 in Four Years
Deposit $10,000.00 (present value)
Earn 3% per year

Now

After 1 year
you have

After 2 years
you have

After 3 years
you have

After 4 years
you have

$10,000 1 $300 interest earned over first year (3% of 10,000) 5
$10,300.00
$10,300.00 1 $309 interest earned over second year (3% of $10,300) 5
$10,609.00
$10,609.00 1 $318.27 interest earned over third year (3% of $10,609) 5
$10,927.27
$10,927.27 1 $327.82 interest earned over fourth year (3% of $10,927.27) 5
$11,255.09 (future value)

their present values. The present value of a cash flow
received in a future time period is the amount of money
that, if invested today at an assumed rate of interest (called the discount rate), would grow to become
that future amount of money. Exhibit 9.5 shows that
$10,000 invested today at 3% grows to a future value
of $11,255.09 in four years. Thus, $10,000 is the present
value of $11,255.09 received in four years.
9-6c The Risk-Return Trade-Off Revisited
Unfortunately, financial managers don’t have crystal balls, so
they don’t know the actual cash flows a proposed p
­ roject will
generate. Instead, they base their analysis on the cash flows the
proposal is expected to generate. Once a company ­actually invests in a project, it may find that the actual cash flows are quite
different from these estimated flows. This ­uncertainty means
that capital budgeting decisions must consider risk.
In general, projects with the potential for high returns
are also the projects with a high degree of uncertainty and

EXHIBIT 9.6

DECISION RULE FOR CAPITAL
BUDGETING

Result of NPV Calculation

Decision

NPV $ 0

Accept proposal ✔

NPV , 0

Reject proposal ✗

risk. This is another example
of the risk-return trade-off we
introduced at the beginning
of this chapter. Clearly, financial managers must take this
trade-off into account when
they compare different capital budgeting proposals; they
must determine whether riskier proposals generate a high
enough expected return to
justify their greater risk.
One common way financial managers try to do
this is to use a higher discount rate when they compute the present values of
cash flows for risky projects
than when they compute
present values for less risky
projects. This reflects the
idea that a higher return is
required to compensate for
the greater risk.

9-6d Net Present Value: A Decision Rule

for Capital Budgeting

The most common method financial managers use to
evaluate capital budgeting proposals is to compute their
net present value (NPV). The NPV of an investment
proposal is found by adding the present values of all of its
­estimated future cash flows and subtracting the initial cost
of the i­nvestment from the sum. A positive NPV means that
the present value of the expected cash flows from the project is greater than the cost of the project. In other words,
the benefits from the project exceed its cost even after
accounting for the time value of money. Financial managers approve projects with
positive NPVs. A negative
present value The amount
NPV means that the presof money that, if invested today
ent value of the expected
at a given rate of interest (called
future cash flows from the
the discount rate), would grow
project is less than the cost
to become some future amount
in a specified number of time
of the investment. This
periods.
would indicate that the cost
net present value (NPV)
of the project outweighs its
The sum of the present values of
cash flow benefits. Financial
expected future cash flows from
managers would reject proan investment, minus the cost of
posals with negative NPVs.
that investment.
(See Exhibit 9.6.)
CHAPTER 9: Finance: Acquiring and Using Funds to Maximize Value

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

167

THE BIG PICTURE
In this chapter, we described the tasks financial
managers perform as they attempt to find the
“best” sources and uses of financial resources—meaning those
that will maximize the value of the firm to its owners. We saw
that in their attempts to achieve this goal, financial managers
face two challenges. The first is to balance the needs of owners
against those of the other stakeholders; the second is to balance
the potential rewards of their decisions against the risks.
Recent history illustrates how important sound financial
management is to the success of a firm—and how devastating poor financial decisions can be. Indeed, the recent
decline and fall of some of the biggest and best-known U.S.
corporations can be traced in large measure to poor financial

decisions—especially decisions that failed to adequately take
risk into account, resulting in the use of too much leverage.
These lessons from the recent past will probably result in a
different approach to financial management over the next
several years. While memories of the Great Recession are still
relatively fresh, firms may be more conservative in their view
of what constitutes the best sources and uses of funds. In
particular, they are likely to shy away from excessive debt and
put more emphasis on equity financing. They also are less likely
to use their funds to invest in highly risky or speculative assets.
These more conservative tendencies are likely to be reinforced
by the major regulatory reforms, designed to curb aggressive
(and risky) behavior, introduced by the Dodd-Frank Act.

CAREERS IN FINANCE
Financial Analyst
Responsible for financial planning; preparing complex
financial analyses and recommendations; establishing and
maintaining internal financial controls; creating and analyzing
monthly, quarterly, and annual reports; and ensuring financial
information has been recorded accurately, working closely
with business unit leaders to align company and financial

STUDY TOOLS

goals, and performing Sarbanes-Oxley assessments and
testing. The ideal candidate has a bachelor’s or master’s
degree in finance, expert spreadsheet and analytical skills,
strong oral and written ­communication skills, strong understanding of financial analysis and reporting, and effective time
and project management skills including the ability to simultaneously manage multiple projects and priorities as well as to
work under pressure to meet deadlines.

9

LOCATED AT BACK OF THE TEXTBOOK
■■

Rip-Out Chapter Review Card

■■

Gain unique perspectives on key concepts with new concept
videos in the e-book
Increase your comprehension with online homework and
quizzes

■■

168

■■

Study with existing flashcards and make your own

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

10

Financial Markets:

Allocating Financial Resources

LEARNING OBJECTIVES
After studying this chapter, you will be able to:

Remember to visit

10-2 Identify the key laws that govern the way financial markets operate, and explain the impact of each law

PAGE 189

10-3 Describe and compare the major types of securities that are traded in securities markets

for additional

10-4 Explain how securities are issued in the primary market and traded on secondary markets

STUDY TOOLS

10-5 Compare several strategies that investors use to invest in securities
10-6 Interpret the information provided in the stock quotes available on financial websites

10-1

THE ROLE OF FINANCIAL MARKETS AND THEIR KEY PLAYERS

Financial markets perform a vital function: they transfer funds from
savers (individuals and organizations willing to defer using some of their
income to earn a financial return and build their wealth) to borrowers
(individuals and organizations that need additional funds to achieve
their financial goals). Without these markets, companies would find it
difficult to obtain the financial resources needed to meet payrolls,
invest in new facilities, develop new products, and compete effectively
in global markets.
But it’s not just businesses that benefit from these markets.
You do, too, through your involvement in both sides of financial markets. You participate as a borrower when using
your credit card to finance daily purchases or when taking
out a loan for college tuition.
You also participate as a
financial markets Markets
saver. San Francisco–based
that transfer funds from savers to
marketing manager Jenn
borrowers.
Chen uses Digit, a financial

170

app that analyzes income and spending patterns, to automatically deduct savings from her checking account each
month. When she has extra money or fewer expenses, Digit
saves more. When her budget is tight, it saves less. Digit
CEO Ethan Bloch says, “Digit tries to find the perfect amount
you should save, money that you don’t need to spend and
that you won’t feel you’re missing.”1 Chen says, “Digit saves
more at certain times and less at others. I kind of let it do its
thing, knowing it’s just running in the background.”2 Savers

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Rawpixel.com/Shutterstock.com

10-1 Explain the role of financial markets in the U.S. economy, and identify the key players in these markets

like Jenn Chen participate in financial markets when using
their savings to accumulate a down payment on a house
or to invest in stocks and bonds to build a nest egg for
retirement.
In the United States and other well-developed market
economies, the vast majority of financing occurs indirectly,
with financial intermediaries coming between the ultimate
savers and borrowers. We’ll see that they perform a variety
of functions, but what they all have in common is that they
help channel funds from savers to borrowers.

10-1a

Depository Institutions

Depository institutions are financial intermediaries
that obtain funds by accepting checking and savings deposits from individuals, businesses, and other institutions,
and then lending those funds to borrowers.
■■

Commercial banks are the most common depository
institutions. When you make a deposit into a checking
or savings account at your bank, you are providing
funds that the bank can use for making loans to businesses, governments, or other individuals.
At the end of 2017, over half (57%) of total bank
assets were in the form of loans, including over

“Sometimes your best
investments are the ones you
don’t make.”
—DONALD TRUMP

$5.1 trillion in real estate and mortgage loans, more
than $1.8 trillion in consumer loans.3
■■

Credit unions are cooperatives, meaning that
they are not-for-profit organizations that are owned
by their depositors. As not-for-profit organizations,
they strive to pay higher interest rates on member
deposits and charge lower interest rates on loans.
Credit unions are
open to individuals who
belong to a specific
depository institution A
financial intermediary that obtains
“field of membership.”
funds by accepting checking and
For example, membersavings deposits and then lending
ship in some credit
those funds to borrowers.
unions is limited to the
credit union A depository
employees who work
institution that is organized as a
for a specific employer
cooperative, meaning that it is
and their family memowned by its depositors.
bers; other credit unions
CHAPTER 10: Financial Markets: Allocating Financial Resources

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

171

Snap Up Snap’s IPO Stock? Read the S-1
Registration First!
up Snap’s IPO stock as an investment? Fortunately, there’s much to
be learned about Snap’s business by reading the S-1.

If you find social media app Snapchat confusing, you’re not
alone. The Wall Street Journal’s Joanna Stern recently wrote,
“Attention everyone born before 1986: It’s not you, it’s Snapchat.”
Snapchat has three components. Snaps are photos and
10-second videos that auto-delete after being viewed by the
friends they’re sent to. Stories are compiled photo sets or videos
broadcast to everyone on Snapchat. Chats are one-to-one texts
that auto-delete when you exit Snapchat or go elsewhere in
the app. Snapchat is where all the cool kids are—cool as in the
highly desired 18-to 34-year-old market segment whose work,
play, and social activities revolve around their smartphones.

Why Snap is a good investment . . .
▪▪ From 2015 to 2016, revenues grew by a factor of 6.9 (from
$58.7 million to $404.5 million), while losses grew by a factor
of 1.38 (from $372.9 million to $514.6 million).
▪▪ In the last two years, average daily revenue per user more
than tripled, from $0.31 to $1.05, while the user base grew
48%, from 107 million to 158 million.
▪▪ Snap generates 90% of advertising sales from its sales
force (a good thing), and it is transitioning to automated
ad-buying systems (even better) similar to those used by
Google and Facebook.

Snap Inc. which makes Snapchat, filed an S-1 Registration
Statement with the U.S. Security and Exchange Commission in
February 2017 for its initial public offering (IPO) of stock (see
Exhibit 10.3). Snap hopes to raise $25 billion. Should investors snap

Why Snap is a risky investment . . .

Christopher Penler/Shutterstock.com

▪▪ Users younger than age 25 use Snapchat 20 times a day for
30 minutes, while users older than age 25 use it 12 times a day
for 20 minutes. So can Snapchat grow among older users, like
Facebook? Being confusing and hard to learn won’t help.

base membership on church or union affiliation or are
open to people living in a certain geographic area.5
Credit unions are a much smaller player in financial markets than commercial banks, but in 2017 they
held more than $428 billion in mortgage financing
and $374 billion in consumer credit on their books.6
■■

Savings and loan associations (also called “S&Ls”

or “thrifts”) traditionally accepted only savings account
deposits and used them to
make mortgage loans. Dursavings and loan
ing the early 1980s, regulaassociation A depository
institution that has traditionally
tions on S&Ls were relaxed,
obtained most of its funds by
allowing them to accept
accepting savings deposits, which
checking account deposhave been used primarily to make
its and make a broader
mortgage loans.
range of loans. Still, the

172

▪▪ Other potential threats include fickle user loyalty, the need
to obtain U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval for its
Spectacles (eyeglasses with video/audio recording capability),
Facebook adding Snapchat-type features to its Instagram app,
and not knowing whether the Chinese government would
allow Snapchat to enter the Chinese market.
Snapchat users clearly value the privacy of having their videos,
photographs, and chats auto-delete, never to be seen again. On
the other hand, investors buying stock in Snap’s IPO wouldn’t be
happy if the same thing happened to Snap’s stock price.4

■■

major focus of the savings and loan industry remains
mortgage loans.
At the end of 2013 (the last year the Federal
Reserve collected these data), S&Ls held $452
billion in mortgages—a big drop from 2006 when
the figure peaked at $1.25 trillion.7 In large part,
this reflected the collapse of the housing market
at the end of the past decade. But S&Ls began
declining in importance well before the Great
Recession.8

10-1b Nondepository Financial Institutions
In addition to banks and other depository institutions, a
number of other financial intermediaries play important
roles in financial markets.

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

■■

■■

Institutional investors don’t accept deposits but
amass huge pools of financial capital from other
sources and use these funds to acquire a portfolio of many different assets. Mutual funds obtain
money by selling shares to investors; insurance
companies obtain money by collecting premiums
from policyholders; and pension funds obtain
money by collecting funds employers and their
employees contribute for the employees’ retirement. These institutions invest heavily in corporate
stock; institutional investors hold the majority of
shares in most major U.S. corporations. They are also
major holders of corporate bonds and government
securities. Exhibit 10.1 lists the world’s largest institutional investors, with New York-based BlackRock
and Pennsylvania-based Vanguard Group topping
the list with $2.98 and $1.97 trillion in holdings
respectively.

Securities brokers act as agents for investors who
want to buy or sell financial securities, such as corporate stocks or bonds. In addition to handling the
trades, many brokers provide their clients with additional services, such as financial planning and market
research. Brokers are compensated by charging fees
and commissions for the services they provide.

■■

■■

Securities dealers participate directly in securities markets, buying and selling stocks and bonds for
their own account. They earn a profit by selling securities for higher prices than they paid to purchase
them. (The difference between the prices at which
they buy and sell a security is called the spread.)
Investment banks are financial intermediaries that
help firms issue new securities to raise financial capital.
Sometimes investment banks actually buy the newly
issued securities themselves; in other cases, they
simply help arrange for their sale. Today’s investment
banks aren’t actually independent companies. Instead,
they are typically divisions of huge bank holding companies that also own commercial banks.

10-2

REGULATING FINANCIAL MARKETS
TO PROTECT INVESTORS AND
IMPROVE STABILITY

Financial markets work well only when savers and borrowers have confidence in the soundness of key financial
institutions and in the fairness of the market outcomes.
When depositors lose confidence in their banks, or when

EXHIBIT 10.1 WORLD’S LARGEST INSTITUTIONAL
INVESTORS
Financial
Holdings (in
U.S. millions)

Institutional
Investors

Headquarters
Location

BlackRock

New York, New York, USA

$2,984,720

Vanguard Group

Valley Forge,
Pennsylvania, USA

$1,969,825

State Street Global
Advisors

Boston, Massachusetts,
USA

$1,812,627

BNY Mellon

New York, New York,
USA

$1,404,170

Legal & General
Investment

London, England,
United Kingdom

$1,072,614

Fidelity Investments

Boston, Massachusetts,
USA

$1,040,425

J.P. Morgan Asset
Management

New York, New York,
USA

$927,266

Wellington
Management

Boston, Massachusetts,
USA

$926,217

Prudential Financial

Newark, New Jersey,
USA

$876,508

PIMCO

Newport Beach,
California, USA

$760,245

Source: Y. Du, “Money managers by the Numbers,” Pensions & Investments, May 30, 2016, http://www
.pionline.com/article/20160530/INTERACTIVE/160529900/money-managers-by-the-numbers/F, accessed
February 8, 2017.

investors discover that financial markets are rigged by
practices such as insider trading or unethical and deceptive accounting, the financial system breaks down.
The financial crisis of 2008 is only the latest example
of the disruptions that result when financial markets malfunction. From the early twentieth century to the present
day, the U.S. economy has
experienced several other
securities broker A financial
major financial crises. The
economy experienced massive bank failures in 1907
and in the early 1930s. It also
weathered a savings and
loan crisis in the late 1980s
that brought the failure
of over 1,000 S&Ls and required a federal bailout that
cost over $120 billion.9 And a
variety of scandals involving
ethical lapses (and in many
cases outright fraud) roiled
financial markets at the turn
of the century.

intermediary who acts as an agent
for investors who want to buy and
sell financial securities. Brokers
earn commissions and fees for the
services they provide.

securities dealer A financial
intermediary who participates
directly in securities markets,
buying and selling stocks and other
securities for its own account.

investment bank A
financial intermediary that
specializes in helping firms
raise financial capital by issuing
securities in primary markets.

CHAPTER 10: Financial Markets: Allocating Financial Resources
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

173

10-2a Financial Regulation:

Early Efforts

During most of the twentieth century, the
federal government responded to financial
upheavals by introducing new laws and
regulations. This trend first emerged in the
wake of the banking panic of 1907, which
created pressure for Congress to find a way
to stabilize the nation’s banking system.
The result was the Federal Reserve Act
of 1913. As its name implies, this act created the Federal Reserve System (the Fed)
to serve as the central bank in the United
States. The law gave the Fed the primary
responsibility for overseeing our nation’s
banking system.
Unfortunately, the creation of the
Fed didn’t solve all of the nation’s banking
problems. Another wave of bank failures
occurred in the early 1930s as the economy
sank into the Great Depression. Congress
responded by passing the Banking Act
of 1933, also known as the Glass-Steagall
Act. This law established the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which insured
depositors against financial losses when
a bank failed. The insurance initially covered only $2,500 of deposits—but $2,500
bought a lot more in the 1930s than it does
today! Over the years, coverage has been
increased several times. Today, the FDIC insures up to $250,000 in deposits.10
Another major provision of the GlassSteagall Act banned commercial banks
from dealing in securities markets, selling
insurance, or otherwise competing with
nondepository institutions such as insurance companies and investment banks.
The rationale for these restrictions was

China’s Skyscraper
Curse
The basic function of financial markets is to transfer funds
from savers, who invest to earn financial returns, to borrowers,
who need funds to achieve financial goals. Toward the end of
economic expansions (which typically last 6–7 years), however,
savers and borrowers often become overly optimistic. When that
happens, savers increasingly put funds into riskier investments,
and borrowers, overconfident in themselves and their plans,
borrow too much!
According to investment banker Andrew Lawrence, booms in
skyscraper construction often occur at the ends of economic
expansions or the starts of economic crashes. For example,
planning for the Empire State Building coincided with the
start of the Great Depression in 1929. In 1996, completion
of the Petronas Towers in Malaysia preceded the 1997 Asian
financial crisis. Dubai’s Burj Khalifa, started in 2004 and
completed in 2009, coincided with the end of an economic
expansion and the start of the Great Recession in 2008. This
skyscraper curse is ostensibly a sign of over-investing and
over-borrowing.
Three of the six tallest buildings completed since 2014 are
located in China, as are 12 of the 26 tallest buildings now under
construction. With economic growth slowing (according to the
Keqiang index, China’s GDP grew 2.38% in 2015—not 6.9%
as claimed by the Chinese government); an estimated 60% of
Chinese bank loans used for buildings and real estate development; Chinese debt levels quadrupling to $28 trillion since
2007, far outpacing economic growth (Chinese debts are now
282% of GDP); a 20% decline in the yuan (China’s currency) in
two years; and a $5 trillion selloff of Chinese stocks in August
2015; the chances of a Chinese skyscraper curse don’t seem so
far-fetched.11

Federal Reserve Act of
1913 The law that established

Banking Act of 1933 The
law that established the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation
(FDIC) to insure bank deposits. It
also prohibited commercial banks
from selling insurance or acting as
investment banks.

174

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Sean Pavone/Shutterstock.com

the Federal Reserve System as the
central bank of the United States.

that involvement in such activities exposed banks and
their depositors to higher levels of risk.
Congress responded to the stock market crash that
occurred in 1929 with two laws that are still the foundation of U.S. securities markets regulation. The first of these
was the Securities Act of 1933, which dealt mainly
with the process of issuing new securities. It prohibited
misrepresentation or other forms of fraud in the sale of
newly issued stocks and bonds. It also required firms issuing new stock in a public offering to file a registration
statement with the SEC. The next year, Congress passed
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which regulated the trading of previously issued securities. This law
created the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) and gave it broad powers to oversee the securities
industry. The law required that all publicly traded firms
with at least 500 shareholders and $10 million in assets
file quarterly and annual financial reports with the SEC,
and that brokers and dealers register with the SEC.
The Securities Exchange Act also gave the SEC the
power to prosecute individuals and companies that
engaged in fraudulent securities market activities. For

example, the SEC has the authority to go after individuals
who engage in illegal insider trading, which is the practice
of using inside information (important information about a
company that isn’t available to the general investing public) to profit unfairly from trading in a company’s securities.
10-2b Deregulation During the 1980s and

1990s: Temporarily Reversing Course

The passage of these laws ushered in a period of more
stable financial markets. But critics argued that the
laws—especially the Glass-Steagall Act—represented
an onerous government intrusion into the financial
sector that stifled competition and impeded financial
innovation. During the 1980s and 1990s Congress responded to these criticisms by easing restrictions on
banks and other depository institutions. For instance,
the Financial Services Modernization Act of
1999, also known as the Gramm-Bliley-Leach Act, reversed the Glass-Steagall Act’s prohibition of banks selling insurance or acting as investment banks.
The financial sector initially seemed to prosper under
its less regulated environment. It responded to its increased freedom with a variety of new services. Also, new
technologies such as ATMs and online banking made financial transactions easier and more convenient.
10-2c Recent Developments: Reregulation

Helga Esteb/Shutterstock.com

in the Aftermath of Financial Turmoil

Elon Musk holds considerable sway at
his companies, recently persuading 85%
of shareholders to approve a merger
between Tesla Motors and SolarCity. Here,
Musk attends a Vanity Fair Oscar Party
at the Wallis Annenberg Center for the
Performing Arts in Beverly Hills, California.

But the wave of deregulation didn’t last. A series of
accounting scandals at the
beginning of the twentyfirst century, followed by a
near collapse of the financial system in 2008, created
pressure for new laws.
Congress reacted to the
accounting scandals in the
first years of the new century
by passing the SarbanesOxley Act in 2002. This law
included provisions to ensure
that external auditors offered
fair, unbiased opinions when
they examined a company’s
financial statements. It also increased the SEC’s authority to
regulate financial markets and
investigate charges of fraud
and unethical behavior.12

Securities Act of 1933 The
first major federal law regulating
the securities industry. It requires
firms issuing new stock in a public
offering to file a registration
statement with the SEC.
Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934 A federal law
dealing with securities regulation
that established the Securities and
Exchange Commission to regulate
and oversee the securities industry.

Securities and Exchange
Commission The federal
agency with primary responsibility
for regulating the securities industry.

Financial Services
Modernization Act of
1999 An act that overturned the
section of the Banking Act of 1933
that prohibited commercial banks
from selling insurance or performing
the functions of investment banks.

CHAPTER 10: Financial Markets: Allocating Financial Resources
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

175

In the wake of the financial crisis of 2008–2009 Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010. This far-reaching
law expanded the Fed’s regulatory authority over nondepository financial institutions, such as hedge funds and
mortgage brokers that had previously operated with little
regulatory oversight or accountability. It also created the
Financial Stability Oversight Council to identify emerging
risks in the financial sector so that action could be taken to
rein in risky practices before they led to a crisis. The council
was given the authority to recommend new rules to the
Federal Reserve that would limit risky practices of the nation’s largest, most complex financial institutions.13

Stock Certificates Represent Shares
of Ownership in a Corporation
Common stock is the basic form of ownership
in a ­corporation.

INVESTING IN FINANCIAL
SECURITIES: WHAT ARE
THE OPTIONS?

Robert Brown Stock/Shutterstock.com

10-3

Exhibit 10.2

Financial securities markets are critical to corporations
that rely on them to obtain much of their long-term financial capital. They also provide one of the most important
venues that individuals can use to build their long-term
wealth and earn significant financial returns.
10-3a

Common Stock: Back to Basics

for their homes and vehicles, Musk said, “Would you
go to an Apple store and expect to see six different
[companies’] cellphones [for sale]?”14 Eighty-five percent of shareholders across both companies subsequently approved the merger.15

Common stock is the basic form of ownership in a corporation. Exhibit 10.2 shows a stock certificate for Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. As owners of corporations, common stockholders have certain basic rights:
Voting Rights: Owners of common stock have
the right to vote on important issues at the annual
stockholders’ meeting. Under the most common arrangement, stockholders can cast one vote for each
share of stock they own. One of the key issues that
stockholders vote on is the selection of members
to the corporation’s board of directors, but they also
may vote on other major issues, such as the approval of a merger with another firm or a change in
the corporation’s by-laws. Recall from Chapter 9 that
billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk is CEO of three
companies. In 2016, Musk asked the shareholders of
two of those companies,
Tesla Motors, which makes
common stock The
luxury battery-powered
basic form of ownership in a
cars, and SolarCity, which
corporation.
makes energy-generating
capital gain The return on an
solar panels, to approve a
asset that results when its market
merger. Envisioning one
price rises above the price the
brand selling to customers
investor paid for it.
who valued clean energy

■■

Right to Dividends: Dividends are a distribution
of earnings to the corporation’s stockholders. All common stockholders have the right to receive a dividend
if their corporation’s board of directors declares one.
The “catch” is that the board has no legal obligation to
declare a dividend. In fact, many rapidly growing companies routinely choose to skip dividends and reinvest
most or all of their earnings to finance growth.

■■

Capital Gains: Stockholders receive another type of
return on their investment, called a capital gain, if
the price of the stock rises above the amount they paid
for it. Capital gains can create very attractive financial
returns for stockholders. Of course, there is no guarantee the stock’s price will rise. If it falls, stockholders would
experience a capital loss rather than a capital gain.

■■

176

■■ Preemptive Right:

If a corporation issues new
stock, existing stockholders sometimes have a preemptive right to purchase new shares in proportion
to their ­existing holdings before the stock is offered
to the other investors. For example, if you own 5%
of the existing shares of stock, then the preemptive

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

right gives you the right to purchase 5% of the new
shares. This could be important for large stockholders
who want to maintain their share of ownership. However, the conditions under which existing stockholders have preemptive rights vary among the states. In
several states, a preemptive right is only available if it
is specifically identified in the corporation’s charter.
■■

Right to a Residual Claim on Assets: The final
stockholder right is a residual claim on assets. If the
corporation goes out of business and liquidates its assets, stockholders have a right to share in the proceeds
in proportion to their ownership. But note that this is
a residual claim—it comes after all other claims have
been satisfied. In other words, the firm must pay any
back taxes, legal expenses, wages owed to workers,
and debts owed to creditors before the owners get
anything. By the time all of these other claims have
been paid, nothing may be left for the owners.

10-3b

Preferred Stock: Getting
Preferential Treatment

Common stock is the basic form of corporate ownership,
but some companies also issue preferred stock, so
named because it offers its holders preferential treatment
in two respects:
■■ Claim on Assets:

Holders of preferred stock have
a claim on assets that comes before common stockholders if the company goes out of business. This gives
preferred stockholders a better chance than common
stockholders of recovering their investment if the
company goes bankrupt.

■■

Payment of Dividends: Unlike dividends on common stock, dividends on preferred stock are usually
a stated amount. And a corporation can’t pay any
dividend to its common stockholders unless it pays
the full stated dividend on its preferred stock. Still, it
is important to note that a corporation has no legal
obligation to pay a dividend to any stockholders, not
even those who hold preferred stock.

Preferred stock sometimes includes a cumulative ­feature.
This means that if the firm skips a preferred dividend in one

“One of the funny things about
the stock market is that every time
one person buys, another sells,
and both think they are astute.”
—WILLIAM FEATHER

period, the amount it must pay the next period is equal to
the dividend for that period plus the amount of the dividend
it skipped in the previous period. Additional skipped dividends continue to accumulate, and the firm can’t pay any
dividends to common stockholders until all accumulated
dividends are paid to preferred stockholders. In the midst
of the lowest oil prices in two decades, Oklahoma-based
Chesapeake Energy suspended its 2016 annual dividends
to save $240 million. After significant restructuring and cost
cutting, Chesapeake reinstated dividends in February 2017.
But before resuming quarterly dividends, the company paid
preferred stockholders the four quarterly dividends (that is,
dividends in arrears) that it had missed in 2016.16
Preferred stock isn’t necessarily “preferred” to common
stock in all respects. For instance, preferred stockholders
normally don’t have voting rights, so they can’t vote on
issues that come up during stockholders’ meetings. And
even though preferred stockholders are more likely to receive a dividend, they aren’t guaranteed a better dividend;
the board can declare a dividend to common stockholders
that offers a higher return.17 Finally, when a company experiences strong earnings, the market price of its common
stock can—and often does—appreciate more in value
than the price of its preferred shares, thus offering common shareholders a greater capital gain.
10-3c

Bonds: Earning Your Interest

A bond is a formal IOU issued by a corporation or government entity. Bonds come in many different varieties. Our
discussion will focus on the basic characteristics of longterm bonds issued by corporations.
The date a bond comes due is called its maturity
date, and the amount the issuer owes the bondholder at
maturity is called the bond’s par value (or face value).
Long-term bonds issued by corporations usually mature
ten to thirty years after issuance, but longer maturities
preferred stock A type
of stock that gives its holder
are possible. In 2015, Brazilpreference over common
ian oil company Petrobras
stockholders in terms of
sold $2.5 billion of century
dividends and claims on assets.
bonds that will mature in
bond A formal debt instrument
2115—100 years later.18
issued by a corporation or
Bondholders can sell
government entity.
their bonds to other invesmaturity date The date
tors before they mature,
when a bond will come due.
but the price they receive
par value (of a bond) The
might not correspond to
value of a bond at its maturity;
the bond’s par value bewhat the issuer promises to pay
cause bond prices flucthe bondholder when the bond
tuate with conditions in
matures.
the bond market. When a
CHAPTER 10: Financial Markets: Allocating Financial Resources

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

177

Krista Kennell/Shutterstock.com

As of 2015, Berkshire Hathaway President
and CEO Warren Buffett owned 37.99% of
the company’s Class A stock. At $244,560
a share, it’s no wonder why Buffett is the
second-wealthiest man in the United States.

bond’s market price is above its par value, it is selling at a
premium; when its price is below par value, it is selling at
a discount.
Most bonds require their issuers to pay a stated
amount of interest to bondholders each year until the bond
matures. The coupon rate on the bond expresses the annual interest payment as a percentage of the bond’s par
value. For example, investors who own a bond with a par
value of $1,000 and a coupon rate of 7.5% receive $75 in
interest (7.5% of $1,000) each year until the bond reaches
maturity—or until they sell their bonds to someone else.
But since bonds can sell at a premium or a discount, the
coupon rate doesn’t necessarily represent the rate of return
that investors earn on the amount they actually paid for the
bond. The current yield
expresses a bond’s interest
payment as a percentage
coupon rate The interest
paid on a bond, expressed as a
of the bond’s current market
percentage of the bond’s par value.
price rather than its par value.
If the market price of the
current yield The amount
of interest earned on a bond,
bond in our example was
expressed as a percentage of the
$833.33, then the current
bond’s current market price.
yield would be 9% (found
convertible security
by dividing the $75 interest
A bond or share of preferred stock
payment by $833.33).
that gives its holder the right to
Unlike dividends on
exchange it for a stated number of
stock,
a firm has a legal obshares of common stock.
ligation to pay interest on

178

bonds—and to pay the bondholder the par value of the
bond when it matures. Thus, bondholders are more likely to
receive a financial return than stockholders. But that doesn’t
mean that bonds are without risk. Corporations that get
into serious financial difficulties sometimes default on their
bonds, meaning that they are unable to make required payments. When that happens, bankruptcy proceedings usually allow bondholders to recover some (but not all) of what
they are owed; historically, the average amount recovered
has been about 72 cents on the dollar.19 While that is better than what stockholders can expect, it is far short of being risk free. In the 12 months ending in June 2016, 79 U.S.
companies, mostly in the energy and mining industries,
defaulted on their bonds.20 Moody’s, which provides credit
ratings for companies, estimated that 2.1% of corporate
debt would be defaulted in 2016, up from 1.7% in 2015 and
0.9% in 2014.21
10-3d Convertible Securities:

The Big Switch

Corporations sometimes issue convertible securities,
which are bonds or shares of preferred stock that investors
can exchange for a given number of shares of the issuing
corporation’s common stock. A conversion ratio indicates
the number of shares of common stock exchanged for
each convertible security. Berkshire Hathaway’s Class A
stock was $244,560 per share when this was written. And
yes, that’s the most expensive share of stock in the world!
Berkshire’s Class B stock, however, traded for $163 on that
same day. Each share of Berkshire’s Class A stock can be
converted into 1,500 Class B shares. At those prices, 1,500
shares of the Class B stock is worth $244,500, or $60 less
than the class A stock. Because the conversion produces a
$60 loss, Class A shareholders are not likely to convert their
stock.22 The ratio is set at the time the convertible securities
are issued so that it is only financially desirable to convert
the securities if the price of the common stock increases.
Owning a convertible security allows investors to gain
from an increase in the price of common stock, while limiting their risk if the price of the stock falls. If the price of
the common stock increases, the holders of convertible
securities can convert them into the now more valuable
stock. But if the price of the company’s common stock falls,
investors can continue to hold their convertible securities
and collect their interest or preferred dividends.
The firm also can benefit from issuing convertible
bonds, because the popularity of this feature with investors allows it to offer a lower coupon rate on convertible
bonds (or a lower dividend on preferred stock), thus reducing its fixed payments. And if investors convert to common
stock, the firm no longer has to make these fixed payments

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

My Bonds Got Called?
When buying a bond, you’re lending an organization money for
a specified period in exchange for interest payments (usually
paid annually) until the bond maturity date, at which time you’re
paid the face (that is, par) value of the bond. For example, in
February 2017, you could buy a 10-year bond from Microsoft
with a coupon rate of 3.3%. If you bought $10,000 of Microsoft’s
bonds, the annual interest payments would be $330 per year (or
$3,300 over 10 years). Then, after 10 years, Microsoft would pay
you back the face value of your bonds, $10,000.

allows the firm to “call the bonds in” before the maturity date. For
example, if Microsoft’s 10-year bonds were callable after five years,
then Microsoft could call the bonds in 2022, pay the face value for
each bond, and then not have to pay the remaining five years of
interest associated with the original maturity date in 2027.

Unlike stock dividends, which are not guaranteed, firms are
legally obligated to pay bond interest and the face value of the
bond when it matures. But that doesn’t mean that bonds are
without risk. This is especially true when bonds are callable, which

While bond calls are a good deal for the corporation, investors
are typically stuck with a smaller return than hoped for. So why
buy callable bonds at all? Because they often come with a higher
rate of return in exchange for their “call risk.”23

Companies typically call bonds in early when interest rates drop.
They pay off the more expensive, higher interest bonds and then
issue new bonds with lower rates. Homeowners do the same thing
when refinancing home mortgages from higher to lower rates.

at all. But there is one important group that may be unhappy with this arrangement; the corporation’s existing
stockholders may be displeased if the new stock issued
to holders of convertible securities dilutes their share of
­ownership—and their share of profits!

tice of holding many different securities in many different
­sectors—is generally considered a desirable strategy because it helps reduce (but not completely eliminate) risk.
If you hold many different securities in different sectors of
the economy, then losses on some securities may be offset
by gains on others.
Many investors who want to hold diversified portfolios find that investing in large numbers of individual
stocks and bonds is prohibitively expensive. And even if
they could afford to do so, investors often lack the time
and expertise to select a large number of individual securities. Faced with these limitations, many investors find
that mutual funds and exchange-traded funds are attractive options.

Mutual Funds: Portfolios Made Easy There are
two ways mutual funds can be structured. A closed-end
fund issues a fixed number of shares and invests the money
received from selling these shares in a portfolio of assets.
Shares of closed-end funds can be traded among investors much like stocks. An open-end mutual fund doesn’t
have a fixed number of shares, nor are its shares traded
like stocks. Instead, the fund issues additional shares
when demand increases and redeems (buys back) old
shares when investors want to cash in.

Arnet117/Shutterstock.com

Mutual Funds and ETFs: Diversification
Made Easy Financial diversification—the prac-

Mutual funds are one of the best ways
for individual investors to diversify
investment portfolios across different
sectors of the economy.
The price at which shares
of an open-end mutual fund
are issued and redeemed
is based on the fund’s net

asset value per share

(NAVPS), which is computed
by dividing the total value of
the fund’s cash, securities, and
other assets (less any liabilities) by the number of fund
shares outstanding. Though
the NAVPS is the basis for the
price of a fund’s shares, investors often also pay commissions and purchase fees.

financial diversification
A strategy of investing in a wide
variety of securities in order to
reduce risk.

mutual fund An institutional
investor that raises funds by
selling shares to investors and uses
the accumulated funds to buy a
portfolio of many different securities.
net asset value per
share The value of a mutual fund’s
securities and cash holdings minus
any liabilities, divided by the number
of shares of the fund outstanding.

CHAPTER 10: Financial Markets: Allocating Financial Resources
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

179

“All I ask is the chance to prove
that money can’t make me
happy.”
—SPIKE MILLIGAN

Several features make mutual funds a popular choice
for investors:
■■

Diversification at Relatively Low Cost: By pooling the funds of thousands of investors, mutual funds
have the financial resources to invest in a broader portfolio of securities than individual investors could afford.
This high level of diversification can help reduce risk.
For instance Vanguard’s Total Stock Market Index Fund
allows investors to diversify because it holds more
than 3,500 US stocks.24

■■

Professional Management: Most mutual funds are
managed by a professional fund manager who selects
the assets in the fund’s portfolio. This can be appealing
to investors who lack the time and expertise to make
complex investment decisions.

■■

Variety: Whatever your investment goals and
philosophy, you can probably find a fund that’s a
good match. There are many different types of funds;
some invest only in certain types of securities (such
as municipal bonds or stocks of large corporations),
others invest in specific sectors of the economy (such
as energy, technology, or healthcare), and yet others
seek more balanced and broad-based portfolios.
Some funds simply invest in a portfolio of stocks that
matches those in a specific stock index, such as the
Standard & Poor’s 500 or the Wilshire 5000. These
index funds have become very popular in recent years.

Liquidity: It’s easy to withdraw funds from a mutual
fund. For a closed-end fund, you simply sell your shares.
For an open-end fund, you redeem your shares from the
fund itself. However, regardless of when you initiate your
exchange traded fund
withdrawal, redemptions of
(ETF) Shares traded on securities
an open-end fund are not
markets that represent the legal
right of ownership over part of a
carried out until its NAVPS
basket of individual stock certificates
is determined after the next
or other securities.
trading session is completed.
primary securities market
Mutual funds do have
The market where newly issued
some drawbacks. Perhaps
securities are traded. The primary
market is where the firms that
the most serious is that
issue securities raise additional
the professional managefinancial capital.
ment touted by many funds
■■

180

doesn’t come cheap. Investors in mutual funds pay a variety
of fees that typically range from 1% to 3% of the amount invested. The fees charged by mutual funds can make a serious
dent in the overall return received by the fund’s investors.
And funds assess these fees even when they perform poorly.
One reason for the popularity of index funds is that they don’t
require professional management, so their fees are lower.
Another drawback of actively managed funds is that
when their professional managers engage in a lot of trading, significant tax consequences are associated with those
financial gains. It is also important to realize that some of
the specialized mutual funds that invest in only one sector of the economy or only one type of security may not
provide enough diversification to reduce risk significantly.
10-3e

Exchange Traded Funds:

Real Basket Cases
(and We Mean That in a Good Way)
An exchange-traded fund (ETF) is similar to a mutual
fund in some respects but differs in how it is created and
how its shares are initially distributed. ETFs allow investors
to buy ownership in what is called a market basket of many
different securities. In fact, the market basket for most ETFs
reflects the composition of a broad-based stock index,
much like an index mutual fund. But in recent years more
specialized ETFs that focus on narrower market baskets of
assets have appeared on the market. Janus Capital Group,
for example, sells an Obesity ETF to invest in companies
that help 640 million obese people worldwide (up 600% in
40 years) control their weight by eating and exercising better, or otherwise treating health issues related to obesity.25
Like closed-end mutual funds—but unlike the more common open-end funds—ETFs are traded just like stocks.
Thus, you can buy and sell ETFs any time of the day.
Compared to most actively managed mutual funds,
ETFs usually have lower costs and fees. However, since
ETFs are bought and sold like stocks, you do have to pay
brokerage commissions every time you buy or sell shares.

10-4

ISSUING AND TRADING
SECURITIES: THE PRIMARY
AND SECONDARY MARKETS

There are two distinct types of securities markets: the
primary securities market and the secondary securities
market. The primary securities market is where corporations raise additional financial capital by selling newly

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

issued securities. The secondary securities market is
where previously issued securities are traded.
10-4a

The Primary Securities Market:
Where Securities Are Issued

There are two methods of issuing securities in the primary
market:
■■

■■

“Investors must keep in mind that
there’s a difference between a
good company and a good stock.
After all, you can buy a good car
but pay too much for it.”
—RICHARD THALER, AMERICAN ECONOMIST

I n a public offering, securities are sold (in concept,
at least) to anyone in the investing public who is willing and financially able to buy them.
I n a private placement, securities are sold to one
or more private investors (who may be individuals or
institutions) under terms negotiated between the issuing firm and the private investors.

Public Offerings Many corporations are initially
owned by a small number of people who don’t sell
the stock to outsiders. But growing corporations often
need to obtain more financial capital than such a small
group can provide. Such firms may go public by issuing additional stock and offering it to investors outside
their group. The first time a corporation sells its stock in
a public offering, the sale is called an initial public
offering (IPO).
Going public is a complicated and high-stakes process; obtaining sufficient funds in an IPO is often critical to
the firm’s success. So, almost all firms that go public enlist
the help and advice of an investment bank that specializes
in helping firms issue new securities. The investment bank
assists the firm at every step of the IPO, from the planning
and market assessment phase until the actual securities
are distributed to investors after the offering is conducted.
Warrior Met Coal LLC, a coal mining company based in
Brookwood, Alabama, hired investment bank Credit Suisse
Group AG to lead an IPO from which it hopes to raise
$3 billion.26
One of the key responsibilities of the investment bank
is to arrange for the actual sale of the securities. The investment bank uses either a best efforts or a firm commitment approach. Under the best efforts approach, the bank
provides advice about pricing and marketing the securities and assists in finding potential buyers. But it doesn’t
guarantee that the firm will sell all of its securities at a high
enough price to meet its financial goals. The investment
bank earns a commission on all of the shares sold under a
best efforts approach.
Under a firm commitment arrangement, the investment bank underwrites the issue. This means that the
investment bank itself purchases all of the shares at a
specified price, thus guaranteeing that the firm issuing

the stock will receive a known amount of new funds.
The investment bank that underwrites the offer seeks to
earn a profit by reselling the stock to investors at a higher
price. For large public offerings, a group of investment
banks, called an underwriting syndicate, may temporarily
work together to underwrite the securities.
Before going public, a firm must file a registration
statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Exhibit 10.3
shows the registration
secondary securities
statement that Snap Inc.,
market The market where
maker of the Snapchat
previously issued securities are
traded.
social media app, filed regarding its IPO in 2017. This
public offering A primary
long, complex document
market issue in which new securities
are offered to any investors who are
must include the firm’s key
willing and able to purchase them.
financial statements plus
additional
information
private placement
A primary market issue that is
about the company’s mannegotiated between the issuing
agement, its properties, its
corporation and a small group of
competition, and the inaccredited investors.
tended uses for the funds
initial public offering
it plans to obtain from the
(IPO) The first time a company
offering. The corporation
issues stock that may be bought
cannot legally offer its new
by the general public.
securities for sale until the
underwriting An
SEC has examined this
arrangement under which an
investment banker agrees to
statement and declared it
purchase all shares of a public
effective.

Private Placements In
a private placement, the
issuing firm negotiates the
terms of the offer directly
with a small number of
accredited investors.
These are individuals, businesses, or other organizations that meet specific
financial
requirements

offering at an agreed-upon price.

registration statement A
long, complex document that firms
must file with the SEC when they sell
securities through a public offering.

accredited investor An
organization or individual
investor who meets certain
criteria established by the SEC
and so qualifies to invest in
unregistered securities.

CHAPTER 10: Financial Markets: Allocating Financial Resources
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

181

set by the SEC. Private placements are usually quicker,
simpler, and less expensive than public offerings. The investment bank often helps the firm identify and contact
accredited investors and assists the firm as it negotiates
the terms of the private placement.
The main reason private placements are simpler
and less expensive than public offerings is that privately
placed securities are exempt from the requirement to
register with the SEC. The ability to obtain financing
without having to prepare complex registration documents can be a real attraction. But because the pool
of potential investors is limited to accredited investors,
private placements normally don’t have the potential to
raise as much money as public offerings. Another drawback is that securities that haven’t been registered with
the SEC can’t be sold to anyone except other accredited
investors.

Exhibit 10.3

Snap, Inc. Registration Statement
for Initial Public Offering

10-4b Secondary Securities Markets:

Let’s Make a Deal

The firms that issue stocks and bonds don’t receive any
additional funds when their securities are traded in the
secondary markets. But few investors would want to buy
securities issued in the primary markets without the liquidity and possibility of earning capital gains provided
by the opportunity to sell these securities in the secondary markets.

Stock (Securities) Exchanges The stocks of
most large publicly traded corporations are listed and
traded on a stock (or securities) exchange. A
securities exchange provides an organized venue for
stockbrokers and securities dealers to trade listed stocks
and other securities. Each exchange establishes its own
requirements for the securities it lists. The requirements
vary among the exchanges, but they’re typically based
on the earnings of the company, the number of shares
of stock outstanding, and the number of shareholders.
In addition to meeting listing requirements, exchanges
require firms to pay an initial fee at the time their securities are first listed, and an annual listing fee to remain
listed on the exchange.
The New York Stock Exchange, owned by Intercontinental Exchange (which runs 12 exchanges
across North America,
Europe, and Asia), trades
stock (or securities)
stock in 2,800 companies
exchange An organized venue
worth $26.5 trillion dolfor trading stocks and other
lars, or three times larger
securities that meet its listing
than the next biggest exrequirements.
change.27 NASDAQ, the

182

Source: “Snap Inc. Form S-1 Registration Statement,” US Securities and Exchange Commission, February 2,
2017, https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564408/000119312517029199/d270216ds1.htm,
accessed February 9, 2017.

second-largest stock exchange, is part of NASDAQ
OMX, which runs exchanges in the United States
and seven in Europe. NASDAQ began 45 years ago
as the National Association of Securities Dealers, or
NASD. Today, NASDAQ trades stock in 3,800 companies located in 35 countries, for a combined worth of
$10.1 trillion.28
Trading on early stock exchanges occurred at physical locations where brokers met on trading floors to buy
and sell securities for their clients. Some exchanges still
maintain actual trading floors, but most trading on today’s exchanges is done electronically. The participants in
these markets carry out their trades mainly via computer
networks.
The trend toward electronic trading began in 1971
with the establishment of NASDAQ, which initially was just
a system used to report stock prices electronically. But over
the years, it evolved into a complete market with formal
listing requirements and fees. The stocks of many of today’s high-profile technology companies, such as Apple,
Google, and Microsoft, are traded on the NASDAQ
market.

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

The key players in the NASDAQ market are known
as market makers. These are securities dealers that
make a commitment to continuously offer to buy and
sell (make a market in) specific NASDAQ-listed stocks.
Each NASDAQ stock has several market makers who
compete against each other by posting two prices for
each stock: the bid price indicates how much the market
maker will pay per share to buy a stated quantity of the
stock, while the ask price indicates the price per share at
which it will sell the same stock. The ask price is higher
than the bid price; the difference is called the bid/ask
spread (or just the spread) and is the source of the market maker’s profit.

The Over-the-Counter Market Many corporations with publicly traded stock don’t meet the requirements to have their shares listed on an organized
exchange; others choose not to list on exchanges because they don’t want to pay the listing fees. The overthe-counter market (OTC) is where the stocks of
such companies are traded. OTC stocks are traded
through a system of market makers much like stocks are
traded on the NASDAQ exchange. However, the market
for most OTC stocks is much less active than for stocks
listed on the major exchanges. Because of this, most
stocks listed on the OTC have only a few market makers.
The lack of competition often leads to much higher
spreads between bid and ask prices for stocks traded in
the OTC than normally exist for stocks traded on the
NASDAQ exchange.

Electronic Communications Networks The
newest development in stock market technology involves
the rise of electronic communications networks
(ECNs). The SEC classifies ECNs as alternative trading systems because they represent an alternative to established
stock exchanges as a venue for buying and selling
securities. ECNs are entirely automated and computerized trading systems that allow traders to bypass the
market makers used in the NASDAQ and OTC markets.
However, individuals can only take advantage of this
venue by opening an account with a broker-dealer that
subscribes to an ECN.
If you place an order to buy a security on an ECN, the
computer system checks to see if there is a matching order
from another trader to sell the same security. If so, it immediately and automatically executes the transaction in a
process that typically takes less than a second to complete.
ECNs obviously speed up transactions. They also make it
possible for investors to trade securities “after hours” when
the U.S. exchanges are closed.

10-5

PERSONAL INVESTING

Would investing in stocks, bonds, and other securities
make sense for you? If so, how could you get started? What
are the potential risks and rewards of various investment
strategies?
Investing in securities requires you to think carefully
about your specific situation, your personal goals, and your
attitudes:
■■

What are your short-term and long-term goals?

■■

Given your budget, how much are you able to invest?

■■

How long can you leave your money invested?

■■

How concerned are you about the tax implications
of your investments?

■■

How much tolerance do you have for risk?

Notice that the last question deals with your attitudes
toward risk. Most people are not comfortable with high
levels of risk. But no investment strategy completely avoids
risk. And in general, the riskier the approach, the greater
the potential rewards. To achieve your goals, you’ll need to
find the balance between risk and return that works for you.
10-5a Choosing a Broker: Gaining Access

to the Markets

Members of the general public cannot directly trade stocks
and other securities on the exchanges, the over-the-counter market, or the ECNs we described earlier in the chapter.
Thus, most investors enlist the services of a brokerage firm
to carry out their trades. Choosing the right broker is the
first step in implementing your investment plans.
A full-service broker
provides a wide range of
services—such as market
market makers Securities
research, investment advice,
dealers that make a commitment to
continuously offer to buy and sell the
and tax ­
planning—in adstock of a specific corporation listed
dition to carrying out your
on the NASDAQ exchange or traded
trades. Discount brokers
in the OTC market.
provide the basic services
over-the-counter (OTC)
needed to buy and sell semarket The market where
curities but offer fewer addisecurities that are not listed on
tional services. They may also
exchanges are traded.
restrict your ability to trade
electronic communications
certain types of securities.
network (ECN) An automated,
computerized securities trading
For example, some discount
system that automatically matches
brokers don’t offer the ability
buyers and sellers, executing trades
to buy and sell foreign secuquickly and allowing trading when
rities. Discount brokers tend
securities exchanges are closed.
to charge significantly lower
CHAPTER 10: Financial Markets: Allocating Financial Resources

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

183

Rock musician David Bowie’s work spanned six decades—
from his debut album David Bowie in 1967 to his 28th
album, Blackstar, released days before his death on January
10, 2016. The musical highlights of Bowie’s career include
“Space Oddity” from the 1969 album of the same name,
“Changes” from 1971’s Hunky Dory, “Fame” from 1975’s Young
Americans, and “China Girl” and “Let’s Dance” from the 1983
album Let’s Dance. Bowie had less success as an actor but
appeared in several films such as The Man Who Fell to Earth
(1976), cult classic Labyrinth (1986), and comedy Zoolander
(2001). He’s also known for assuming various musical personalities while performing, such as the Thin White Duke, Ziggy
Stardust, and Aladdin Sane (Google them!).
While you may be familiar with Bowie’s artistic work, you
may not know that he was also a financial innovator in the
music industry. Reluctant to sell the rights to his music (a
costly mistake the Beatles made), Bowie enlisted investment
banker David Pullman to develop a better system. Pullman
suggested that the future stream of earnings (that is, sales

commissions than full-service brokers. In fact, many discount
brokers charge flat fees of only a few dollars per trade for basic transactions. But brokerage firms also charge a variety of
fees—sometimes including “inactivity fees” if you don’t place
enough orders! Once these fees are considered, brokerage
firms that offer low commissions may not be as inexpensive
as they first appear! To stop clients from defecting to discount
brokers, many full-service firms have lowered commissions.
At the same time, many discount brokers have begun offering a broader range of services. The result is that many brokerage firms offer investors the choice of either discount or
full-service accounts.
With technology driving many of these changes,
the financial planning industry now uses robo advisors
to help people automatically set, track, stick to (that’s
the hard part), and eventually achieve their financial
goals. Wealthfront and Betterment, two of the largest
robo advisor services, use computer algorithms to automatically invest clients’ wealth in a way that maximizes
returns and minimizes taxes. Based on criteria set by the
user, these services automatically deposit bank funds
into retirement accounts
each month; retrieve and
market order An order
then invest extra cash that
telling a broker to buy or sell
would otherwise not earn
a specific security at the best
a return; and rebalance
currently available price.
stock portfolios by selling

184

and royalties) from Bowie’s first 25 albums be used to
securitize (that is, pay the interest and principle of ) 10-year
Bowie Bonds. When issued in 1997, these bonds paid 7.9%
interest. Bowie earned $55 million from the bond sale, and
after 10 years, the
full ownership rights
to his music (as well
as their subsequent
earnings) reverted
to him. While his
music is timeless, the
emergence of online
music sharing services
hurt music sales
overall. Bowie Bonds
were downgraded
to junk status and
then liquidated
in 2007.29

JStone/Shutterstock.com

David Bowie: Rock 'n' Roll Icon and Businessman

fast-moving stocks (capturing the gains) and investing in underweighted (and perhaps cheaper) stocks.
Not only do robo advisors do all this automatically and
based on individualized financial goals, they do so with
lower annual fees than traditional advisors. Robo advisors typically charge 0.25% to 0.50% of assets, compared
to 1% to 2% among human advisors.30
Once you’ve decided on a broker, you need to
open an account. This is a fairly simple process; it requires filling out some forms (usually available online)
and making an initial investment. The minimum initial
investment varies, but $1,000 to $3,000 is fairly typical.
10-5b

Buying Securities: Let’s Make a Deal

Once you’ve set up your account, you can trade securities
by contacting your broker and indicating the security you
want to trade and the quantity you want to buy or sell. You
can also specify the type of order you want to place. The
most common types of orders are market orders and limit
orders:
■■

Market orders instruct the broker to buy or sell a
security at the current market price. Placing a market order virtually guarantees that your order will be
­executed. The downside is that you may end up buying at a higher price than you expected to pay (or selling your stock for less than you expected to receive).

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

B R E X I T A F F E C T I N G E X C H A N G E R AT E S , P R I C I N G , A N D P R O F I T S
If you’ve traveled abroad, you know that swings in
currency exchange rates can make your trip significantly more or less expensive. In January 2012, a euro
(€) was worth $1.27. But in January 2017, it was worth
just $1.06. So if a Paris hotel charged €225 a night, the cost in
U.S. dollars was $286 in 2012 and $239 (16% less) in 2017. Such
significant currency changes affect product prices and firm
profitability.
Since the citizens of the United Kingdom (U.K.) voted to leave
the European Union (via Brexit, or British exit) on June 23,
2016, the British pound (£) has fallen 18.4% relative to the U.S.
dollar, from $1.48 to $1.25. That’s great if you’re an American
vacationing in London. But it’s bad for American firms selling
imported goods. These firms will see their U.K. revenue drop by
20% from the exchange rate alone.

rate swings. Due to strong product demand in the United
Kingdom, Apple raised U.K. prices to cover the entire
currency fluctuation. In most cases, that resulted in a 25%
increase (18% to 20% higher because of currency fluctuations, followed by an additional 20% for the U.K.’s value
added tax).
P&G, which imports household goods like Tide, Gillette
shaving products, and Pampers diapers, competes in the
United Kingdom against British and European firms. So,
with less pricing power, it responded with a smaller 10%
price increase.31

Koca Vehbi/Shutterstock.com

In the short run, this leaves two bad options. First, raise
prices aggressively to cover the entire currency fluctuation
and watch sales drop as customers simply buy fewer of your
products or buy cheaper products from a competitor instead.
Second, raise prices modestly and take a direct hit to U.K.
revenues. Either way, revenues and profits will likely drop—
especially since the currency and prices changed so dramatically in so little time.
Because two-thirds of Apple’s sales are outside the United
States, its product pricing is strongly affected by exchange

Limit orders place limits on

approaches is foolproof—alas,
the prices at which orders are
there is no known strategy that is
“I will tell you how to
executed. A buy limit order
guaranteed to earn you millions.
become rich. Close the
tells a broker to buy a stock
Investing for Income Some indoors. Be fearful when
only if its price is at or below
vestors focus on buying bonds and
a ­specified value. You’d use
others are greedy. Be
preferred stocks to generate a steady,
this approach if you wanted to
greedy when others
predictable flow of income. This apmake sure you didn’t pay more
proach is popular with retirees who
are
fearful.”
for the stock than you thought
want to supplement their retirement
it was worth. A sell limit order
— WA R R E N B U F F E T T
income. But the return on such lowtells your broker to sell the
risk securities is relatively low, and
shares only if the price is at or
their market value seldom increases much over time. Thus,
above a specified value. This prevents your broker from
it probably isn’t the best
selling your stock at a price you believe is too low.
strategy for younger inveslimit order An order to a
tors who are trying to grow
10-5c Strategies for Investing in Securities
broker to buy a specific stock only
their wealth.
if its price is below a certain level,
There are several strategies you can use to guide your
or to sell a specific stock only if its
investment decisions. We’ll provide an overview of
Market Timing Invesprice is above a certain level.
the more common approaches, but none of these
tors who rely on market
■■



CHAPTER 10: Financial Markets: Allocating Financial Resources
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

185

Investing for Growth

Agencja Fotograficzna Caro/Kaiser/Alamy Stock Photo

Investors who focus on
growth look for companies
that have the potential to
grow much faster than average for a sustained time,
which they believe will lead
to a steady (and sometimes
spectacular) rise in the
stock’s price. Investors using this strategy often invest
in stocks of relatively new
companies with innovative
­products in a hot sector of
the economy.
Investing for growth
entails significant risk. Small
new companies lack established track records. And
Stockbrokers place orders to buy and sell stocks and other
rapidly expanding industries
securities for their clients.
tend to attract many start-up
companies, so competition
can be intense. Finally, given
the rapid pace of technological change, today’s hot prostiming use a variety of analytical techniques to try to
pects may soon be dethroned by the next big thing. It’s hard
predict when prices of specific stocks are likely to rise
to predict which firms will be winners; even experts often
and fall. Market timers try to make quick gains by
make the wrong choice.
buying low and selling high over a relatively short time
horizon.
Buying and Holding If you’re a patient person
The problem with market timing is that so many facwith steady nerves, a buy-and-hold approach might
tors can influence stock prices—some of them random
appeal to you. This strategy involves purchasing a diin nature—that it’s tough to consistently identify the
versified set of securities and holding them for a long
timing and direction of changes in stock prices. Market
period of time. Buy-and-hold investors put their faith in
timing also requires investors to make frequent trades.
the ability of the overall market to continue the long-run
Given the commissions paid on trades and the taxes inupward trend it has exhibited throughout its history.
curred on short-term capital gains, this approach may
One way that many buy-and-hold investors do this is by
do a better job of enriching the broker than enriching
investing in index mutual funds and ETFs. The buy-andthe trader!
hold strategy seldom allows investors to “get rich quick,”
but it usually results in a solid financial return over the
Value Investing Investors who favor value investing
long haul.
try to find stocks that are undervalued in the market. They
Obviously, the buy-and-hold strategy will work
believe that the market price will rise over time to reflect
only if you can afford to leave your money invested for
its true value, thus generating a capital gain. This approach
a long time. When the stock market takes a dive, it can
requires intensive research to identify discrepancies besometimes take years for stocks to recover and start
tween a company’s true (or intrinsic) value and its current
to show solid returns. Some people who think they’re
market price.
comfortable with a buy-and-hold strategy end up getThe drawback with value investing is that thouting “happy feet” after a few weeks of declining stock
sands of investors are all trying to do the same thing, so
prices. They panic and sell off their stocks at exactly the
the competition to locate undervalued stocks is intense.
wrong time, locking in big losses. For the buy-and-hold
Unless you’re among the first to discover a good value,
strategy to work, you’ve got to have the patience—and
the investors who beat you to it will rush to buy up the
mental toughness—to ride out short-term downturns
stock, increasing demand and driving up the stock’s
in the market. Michael Pagano, professor of finance at
price so that it is no longer undervalued.

186

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Villanova University, explains why: “For a diversified equity portfolio of U.S. stocks, 10 to 15 years is long enough
to overcome any bad timing in terms of entry points.
Any shorter than that and you run the risk that you buy
at a peak and then have to sell out at a trough.”32

10-6

Stock Indices: Tracking the Trends

One of the most common ways to track general market
conditions and trends is to follow what’s happening to
various stock indices. A stock index tracks the prices of
a large group of stocks that meet certain defined criteria.
Many investors like to compare how the stocks in their own
portfolio compare to the performance of these broad indices. Two of the best-known indices are the Dow Jones
Industrial Average and the S&P 500.
■■

■■

Index

What It Tracks

NASDAQ
Composite

All of the domestic and foreign common
stocks traded on the NASDAQ exchange.

Wilshire 5000

Stock prices of all U.S. corporations with
actively traded stock. Despite the 5,000 in its
name, this index actually includes well over
6,000 stocks. (The exact number changes
frequently.)

Russell 2000

Stock prices of 2,000 relatively small but
actively traded U.S. corporations.

FTSE 100

Stock prices of 100 of the largest and most
actively traded companies listed on the
London Stock Exchange.

Nikkei 225

Stock prices of 225 of the largest and most
actively traded companies listed on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange.

SSE Composite

Stock prices of all stocks listed on the
Shanghai Stock Exchange.

KEEPING TABS ON THE MARKET

Once you’ve begun to invest in securities, you’ll want
to keep track of how your investments are doing. Using
the Internet, you can easily find information about both
general market trends and the performance of specific
securities.
10-6a

EXHIBIT 10.4     MAJOR STOCK PRICE INDICES

The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA):
Often called just “the Dow,” this is the most widely
followed stock index. The Dow is based on the
adjusted average price of 30 stocks picked by the
editors of The Wall Street Journal. All of the Dow
firms are large, well-established corporations, such
as Apple, General Electric, Coca-Cola, McDonald’s,
Verizon, and Disney.
The Standard & Poor’s 500: With 500 stocks
instead of just 30, the S&P 500 is a much broader
index than the DJIA. Still, like the Dow, the companies
Included in the S&P 500 are large, well-established
American corporations such as 3M, Adobe Systems,
Amazon, Google, Facebook, and Wells Fargo.

combination of letters that uniquely identifies a corporate security—into a “Get Quote” box. (Most sites have a
lookup feature that finds the symbol if you type in the
company’s name.)
Exhibit 10.5 illustrates the information a popular
finan­cial website, Yahoo! Finance (http://finance.yahoo
.com/), provides about McDonald’s common stock.
Some of the key figures reported for McDonald’s include:
■■

Last trade: The price of McDonald’s ­common stock for
the most recent trade was $124.63.

■■

Change: The last trade of McDonald’s stock was $0.04
lower than the closing price for the stock on the
­previous day.

■■

Bid and Ask: The highest
price currently offered
(bid) to buy McDonald’s
stock is $124.64 for
100 shares. The lowest
price currently ­offered
(asked) to sell the stock
is $124.99 for 2,000
shares.

Exhibit 10.4 identifies several other well-known indices, including some that track prices of stocks in foreign
securities markets.
10-6b

Tracking the Performance
of Specific Securities

Many financial websites offer detailed stock quotes that
provide the current price of a company’s stock and a
wealth of related information. To check out a specific stock, you simply type its stock symbol—a short

■■

Day’s range: The highest price for the stock
during the day was
$124.98 and the lowest price was $124.36.

stock index A statistic that
tracks how the prices of a specific
set of stocks have changed.
Dow Jones Industrial
Average (DJIA) An
index that tracks stock prices
of 30 large, well-known U.S.
corporations.

Standard & Poor’s 500 A
stock index based on prices of
500 major U.S. corporations in a
variety of industries and market
sectors.

CHAPTER 10: Financial Markets: Allocating Financial Resources
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

187

EXHIBIT 10.5   YAHOO! FINANCE QUOTE FOR
A STOCK

■■

Market Cap: The total market value of all shares
of McDonald’s common stock outstanding was
103.51 billion. This is found by multiplying the
price per share times the number of shares of
common stock ­outstanding.

■■

P/E: The price-to-earnings of 23.42 is found by dividing the stock’s price per share by its earnings per
share. In general, a higher P/E ratio means investors
expect a greater growth in earnings over time.

■■

EPS (earnings per share): McDonald’s earned $5.32 per
share of common stock outstanding. EPS is computed
by dividing the net income available to common
stockholders by the number of shares of common
stock outstanding.

■■

Div & Yield: The sum of dividends paid by McDonald’s over the past 12 months was $3.76 per share.
Yield is found by dividing the dividend per share
by the previous day’s price per share. It tells us
that at that price the dividend paid by McDonald’s
represented a 3.02% return to the investor. (But
since the total return to stockholders may also
include a capital gain or loss, this yield doesn’t tell
us the whole story.)

McDonald’s Corp. Common St (NYSE: McD)
Real-time 124.63 T 0.04 (0.03%) 2:30 PM EDT
Last Trade:

124.63

Day’s Range:

124.36–124.98

Trade Time:

2:30 pm EDT

52wk Range:

110.33–131.96

Change:

T 0.04 (0.03%)

Volume:

1,420,703

Prev Close:

124.67

Avg Vol (3m):

3,882,779

Open:

124.47

Market Cap:

103.51B

Bid:

124.64 3 100

P/E (ttm):

23.42

Ask:

124.99 3 2,000

EPS (ttm):

5.32

1y Target Est:

125.32

Div & Yield:

3.76 (3.02%)

Source: Yahoo! Finance stock quote, accessed February 9, 2017.

■■

52-Week range: The highest price for McDonald’s stock
over the previous 52 weeks was $131.96 while its lowest price was $110.33.

■■

Volume: 1,420,703 shares of the stock have been traded
up to this point in the current trading ­session—well
below the average of 3,882,779 shares.

Financial websites also provide information about
other types of securities such as mutual funds, ETFs, and
bonds.

THE BIG PICTURE
Many different organizations participate in
financial markets, including banks, finance
companies, securities brokers and dealers, investment banks,
and institutional investors such as mutual funds, insurance
companies, and pension funds. Although they differ in their
functions, each of these participants helps financial markets
achieve their primary purpose of channeling funds from savers
to borrowers.
In this chapter, we focused on one particular type of financial
market, namely the market for financial securities. The financial
capital that corporations raise when they issue stocks and bonds
in these markets is critical to every functional area of their
operations. Without these funds, the marketing department
would lack the resources needed to develop new products;
information technology professionals would be unable to

188

update hardware and software; and operations managers
would be unable to acquire the ­machinery and equipment
needed to produce the goods and services the company sells to
earn its profits.
On the other side of these markets, investors who buy
corporate securities do so to acquire assets that they
believe will help them achieve their own financial goals. But
investing in securities involves risk. Over any short-run time
period, there is simply no guarantee that stocks and bonds
will provide investors with the returns they expect. The
good news—at least if you plan to invest—is that history
shows that, over the long run, the return on these securities
is positive. Given enough time and patience, investing in
stocks and other securities is likely to result in a substantial
increase in wealth.

PART THREE: Financing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

CAREERS IN BUSINESS
Stock Broker
Responsible for meeting and getting to know clients and
their financial needs, offering financial advice on investment
recommendations (for a diversified mix of stocks, fixedincome investments including bonds and certificates of
deposit, mutual funds and annuities, as well as a wide range
of insurance options, including life insurance, long-term

STUDY TOOLS

disability, and long-term care), and placing trades. The
ideal candidate has a bachelor’s or master’s degree, Series
7 license, a strong sales and/or management background,
strong interpersonal skills that provide the ability to
develop meaningful relationships, the drive to set and
achieve goals in a performance-driven atmosphere,
and the ability to work autonomously from your own
neighborhood office.

10

LOCATED AT BACK OF THE TEXTBOOK
■■

Rip-Out Chapter Review Card

■■

Gain unique perspectives on key concepts with new concept
videos in the e-book
Increase your comprehension with online homework and
quizzes

■■

■■

Study with existing flashcards and make your own

CHAPTER 10: Financial Markets: Allocating Financial Resources
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

189

11

Marketing:

Building Profitable
Customer Connections

LEARNING OBJECTIVES
After studying this chapter, you will be able to:
11-1 Discuss the objectives, the process, and the scope of marketing

Remember to visit

11-3 Explain each element of marketing strategy

for additional

11-4 Describe the consumer and business decision-making process

STUDY TOOLS

11-5 Discuss the key elements of marketing research
11-6 Explain the roles of social responsibility and technology in marketing

11-1

MARKETING: GETTING VALUE BY GIVING VALUE

What comes to mind when you hear the term marketing? Most
people think of the radio ad they heard this morning or the billboard
they saw while driving to school. But advertising is only a small part
of marketing; the whole story is much bigger. The American Marketing
Association defines marketing as the activity, set of institutions, and
processes for creating, communicating, delivering, and exchanging offerings that
have value for customers, clients, partners, and society at large.

marketing An organizational
function and a set of processes
for creating, communicating, and
delivering value to customers
and for managing customer
relationships in ways that benefit the
organization and its stakeholders.

utility The ability of goods and
services to satisfy consumer “wants.”

190

The ultimate benefit that
most businesses seek from
marketing is long-term
profitability. But attaining
this benefit is impossible
without first delivering
value to customers and
other stakeholders. A successful marketer delivers

value by filling customer needs in ways that exceed
their expectations. As a result, you get sales today and
sales tomorrow and sales the next day, which—across
the days and months and years—can translate into
long-term profitability. Alice Foote MacDougall, a successful entrepreneur in the 1920s, understood this
thinking early on: “In business you get what you want
by giving other people what they want.” Utility is the
ability of goods and services to satisfy these wants. And

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Ryan Pierse/Getty Images

PAGE 207

11-2 Identify the role of the customer in marketing

since there is a wide range of wants, products can provide utility in a number of different ways:
■■

■■

■■

Form utility satisfies wants by converting inputs
into a finished form. Clearly, the vast majority of
products provide some kind of form utility. For
example, Jamba Juice blends fresh fruits, juices, and
vegetables into healthy and delicious smoothies, and
UGG Australia stretches, treats, and sews sheepskins
and wool into comfortable, stylish boots.
Time utility satisfies wants by providing goods and
services at a convenient time for customers. For
example, Amazon Prime offers free same day delivery for qualifying orders in some areas, many dry
cleaners offer one-hour service, 24 Hour Fitness is
virtually always open, some fast-food restaurants
offer 24-hour drive-through windows, and ATMs
and online services have turned banking into an
all-hours industry.
Place utility satisfies wants by providing goods and
services at a convenient place for customers. For
example, Redbox makes DVDs and games available
in front of a growing number of retailers, Denny’s
and Waffle House offer inexpensive food at the

“A thrilled customer is the most
potent marketing asset your
organization can leverage.”
—JOHN JANTSCH, AUTHOR,
D U C T TA P E M A R K E T I N G

bottom of many freeway off ramps, and vending
machines refuel tired students on virtually every
college campus.
■■

Ownership utility satisfies wants by smoothly
transferring ownership of goods and services
from seller to buyer. Virtually every product
provides some degree of ownership utility, but
some offer more than others. Consider that many
car dealerships offer financing options. These
dealerships and other lenders operate around the
premise of ownership utility: if the borrower makes
the specified number of payments, he or she will
eventually own the product free and clear.

Satisfying customer wants—in a way that exceeds
expectations—is a job that never ends. Jay Levinson, a
recognized expert in breakthrough marketing, comments,
CHAPTER 11: Marketing: Building Profitable Customer Connections

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

191

“Marketing is . . . a process. You improve it, perfect it, change
it, even pause it. But you never stop it completely.”

■■

People Marketing: Sports, politics, and art
dominate this category, but even some businesspeople merit mentioning. Top banking executives,
for instance, took a beating from a marketing
standpoint during the financial meltdown at the
end of 2008. Also in 2008, President Barack Obama
was named Ad Age Marketer of the Year, edging
out powerhouse consumer brands that were
also on the short list, such as Apple, Nike, and
Coors. He became a living symbol of change in
the minds of his supporters. President Trump took
political people marketing to a whole new level
during the 2016 presidential campaign when he
marketed himself as the way to “Make America
Great Again.” Countless entertainers and athletes
have used people marketing to their advantage
as well. Consider, for example, Paris Hilton, who
appeared to build her early career on promotion
alone, eventually parlaying the media attention
into a successful line of perfumes and fashion
items. Hilton clearly has no doubt about her abilities, declaring, “I am a marketing genius.” In fact,
as you pursue your personal goals—whether you
seek a new job, university admission, or a Friday
night date—people marketing principles can help
you achieve your objective. Start by figuring out
what your “customer” needs, and then ensure that
your “product” (you!) delivers above and beyond
expectations.2

■■

Place Marketing: This category involves drawing
people to a particular place. Cities and states use
place marketing to attract businesses. Delaware, for
instance, the second-smallest state in the Union, is
home to more than half of the Fortune 500 firms
because it deliberately developed a range of advantages for corporations. But more visibly, cities, states,
and nations use place marketing to attract tourists.
Thanks to powerful place marketing, most people
have probably heard that “What happens in Vegas
stays in Vegas.” In late 2008, Las Vegas shelved the
high-rolling campaign in favor of a more “recessionproof,” but less successful strategy: the “Take a Break
USA” campaign. By late 2009, Vegas had reverted to
the “What ­Happens . . .” campaign that fueled visitors
since its launch in 2003, leading to a record-breaking
42.9 million visitors in 2016.3

■■

Event Marketing: This category includes marketing­—
or sponsoring—athletic, cultural, or charitable events.
Partnerships between the public and private sectors are
increasingly common. Examples include the Olympics,
the Super Bowl, and the FIFA World Cup.

11-1a  The Scope of Marketing:

It’s Everywhere!

Graham R Prentice/Shutterstock.com

For many years, businesspeople have actively applied the
principles of marketing to goods and services that range
from cars to fast food, to liquor, to computers, to movies.
But within the past decade or two, other organizations
have successfully adopted marketing strategies and tactics
to further their goals.
Nonprofit organizations—in both the private and
public sectors—play a significant role in our economy,
employing more people than the federal government
and all 50 state governments combined (not to mention an army of volunteers!). These organizations use
marketing, sometimes quite assertively, to achieve
their objectives. The U.S. Army’s marketing communications budget, for example, sometimes approaches as
much as $200 million per year. Your own college probably markets itself to both prospective students and
potential alumni donors. Private-sector nonprofit organizations also use marketing strategies for everything
from marshaling AYSO soccer coaches for kids to boosting attendance at the local zoo, to planning cultural
events.1
Nonprofit organizations play a pivotal role in the expansion of marketing across our economy to include
people, places, events, and ideas. But for-profit enterprises
have also begun to apply marketing strategies and tactics
beyond simply goods and services.

Athletic, cultural, and charitable
events are all activities that rely on
sponsorships as part of their event
marketing approach.

192

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

priority was to produce large quantities
of goods as efficiently
as possible.

Exhibit 11.1

The Evolution of Marketing
The focus of marketing has evolved over time.

Selling Era By the

Marketing Approaches

Relationship Focus

Marketing Focus

Selling Focus

Production Focus

1920

1930

1940

1950

1960

1970

1980

1990

While individual firms differ in their approach to marketing, the prevailing view at
leading-edge firms has changed over time as shown here.

■■

Idea Marketing: A whole range of public and private
organizations market ideas that are meant to change
how people think or act. Recycle, don’t drink and
drive, buckle your seatbelt, conserve water, support
our political party, donate blood, and don’t smoke are
all examples of popular causes. Often, idea marketing
and event marketing are combined, as we see in
the annual Avon Walk for Breast Cancer. The planners
actively market the idea of annual mammograms,
as they solicit contributions for breast cancer
research and participation in the event itself.

2000

2010

1920s, production capacity had increased
dramatically. For the
first time, supply in
many categories exceeded demand, which
caused the emergence
of the hard sell. The selling focus gained momentum in the 1930s
and 1940s, when the
Depression and World
War II made consumers
even more reluctant to
part with their limited
money.

Marketing Era The landscape changed dramati-

The current approach to marketing evolved through a
number of overlapping stages, as you’ll see in Exhibit 11.1.
But as you read about these eras, keep in mind that some
businesses have remained lodged—with varying degrees
of success—in the thinking of a past era.

cally in the 1950s. Many factories that had churned
out military supplies converted to consumer production, flooding the market with choices in virtually
every product category. An era of relative peace and
prosperity emerged, and—as soldiers returned from
World War II—marriage and birthrates soared. To compete for the consumer’s dollar, marketers attempted to
provide goods and services that met customer needs
better than anything else on the market. As a result,
the marketing concept materialized in the 1950s. The
marketing concept is a philosophy that makes customer satisfaction—now and in the future—the central focus of the entire organization. Companies that
embrace this philosophy strive to delight customers,
integrating this goal into all business activities. The marketing concept holds that delivering unmatched value
to customers is the only effective way to achieve longterm profitability.

Production Era Marketing didn’t always begin with
the customer. In fact, in the early 1900s, the customer
was practically a joke. Henry Ford summed up the prevailing mindset when he reportedly said, “You can have
your Model T in any color you want as long as it’s black.”
This attitude made sense from a historical perspective,
since consumers didn’t have the overwhelming number
of choices that are currently available; most products
were purchased as soon as they were produced and distributed to consumers. In this context, the top business

Relationship Era The marketing concept has
gathered momentum across the economy, leading to
the current era, unfolding over the last decade, which
zeros in on long-term customer relationships. Acmarketing concept A
quiring a new customer
business philosophy that makes
can cost five times more
customer satisfaction—now and
than keeping an existing
in the future—the central focus of
customer. Retaining your
the entire organization.
current customers—and

11-1b  T
 he Evolution of Marketing:

From the Product to the Customer

CHAPTER 11: Marketing: Building Profitable Customer Connections
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

193

11-2

THE CUSTOMER:
FRONT AND CENTER

11-2a  C
 ustomer Relationship

Management (CRM)

Customer relationship management (CRM) is the
centerpiece of successful, twenty-first-century marketing.
Broadly defined, CRM is the ongoing process of acquiring, maintaining, and growing profitable customer
relationships by delivering unmatched value. CRM works
best when marketers combine marketing communication
with one-on-one personalization. Amazon is a champion
player at CRM, greeting customers by name, recommending specific products, and providing streamlined checkout.
Clearly, information is an integral part of this process—you
simply can’t do CRM without collecting, managing, and applying the right data at the right time for the right person
(and every repeat customer is the “right person”!).

Limited Relationships The scope of your relationships will depend not just on the data you gather but also
on your industry. Colgate-Palmolive, for example, can’t
forge a close personal bond with every person who buys
a bar of Irish Spring soap. However, the company does
invite customers to call its toll-free line with questions or
comments, and it maintains a vibrant website with music,
an e-newsletter, special offers, and an invitation to contact the company. You can bet that the company actively
gathers data and pursues a
connection with customers
who initiate contact.
customer relationship
management (CRM) The
Full Partnerships If
ongoing process of acquiring,
you have a high-ticket
maintaining, and growing
profitable customer relationships
product and a smaller cusby delivering unmatched value.
tomer base, you’re much
more likely to pursue a full
value A customer perception
that a product has a better
partnership with each of
relationship than its competitors
your key clients. Colgatebetween the cost and the benefits.
Palmolive, for instance, has
customer satisfaction
dedicated customer service
When customers perceive
teams working with key acthat a good or service delivers
counts such as Walmart and
value above and beyond their
Costco. With a full partnerexpectations.
ship, the marketer gathers

194

and leverages extensive information about each customer
and often includes the customer in key aspects of the product development process.

Value You know you’ve delivered value when your customers believe that your product has a better relationship
between the cost and the benefits than any competitor. By
this definition, low cost does not always mean high value.
In fact, a recent survey suggests that loyal customers are often willing to pay more for their products rather than switch
to lower-cost competitors. Apple provides a clear example.
We probably all know at least a handful of Apple fanatics
who gladly pay far more for their PowerBooks (or iPhones
or iPads) than they would pay for a competing product.
11-2b  Perceived Value versus Actual Value
The operative idea here is perceived. Simply creating value
isn’t enough; you also must help customers believe that
your product is uniquely qualified to meet their needs. This
becomes a particular challenge when you’re a new business competing against a market leader with disproportionately strong perceived value.
11-2c  Customer Satisfaction
You know you’ve satisfied your customers when you deliver perceived value above and beyond their expectations.
But achieving customer satisfaction can be tricky. Less
savvy marketers frequently fall into one of two traps:
■■

The first trap is overpromising. Even if you deliver
more value than anyone else, your customers will be
disappointed if your product falls short of overly high
expectations. The messages that you send regarding
your product influence expectations—keep them real!

Mangostock/Shutterstock.com

getting them to spend additional dollars—is clearly
cost-effective. Moreover, satisfied customers can develop into advocates for your business, becoming powerful generators of positive “word of mouth.”

Perhaps in no other industry is there
more customer loyalty than when
purchasing a new vehicle.

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Marketing Strategy
Co m p e t i t i v e

al

c
du
Pro
gi

ca

ra t

eg y

c

St
n
t eg

y

l

D

ib
is t r

ut

io

al

ra

eg

lo

om i

y

no

on

ur

Ec

eg

In marketing terms, the questions become: Who is your
target audience, and how will you reach them? Many successful firms answer this question by developing a formal
marketing plan, updated on a yearly basis; other firms
handle their planning on a more informal basis. But regardless of the specific approach, the first step in planning
your marketing strategy should be to determine where to
target your efforts. Who are those people who are most
likely to buy your products? The first step is market
segmentation—dividing your marketing into groups
of people, or segments, that are similar to one another
and different from everyone else. One or more of these
segments will be your target market. Once you’ve identified your target market, your next step is to determine
how you can best use marketing tools to reach them. And
finally, you need to anticipate and respond to changes
in the external environment. This section will define

St

n

MARKETING STRATEGY:
WHERE ARE YOU GOING, AND
HOW WILL YOU GET THERE?

S

at

io

11-3

in g

ot

generating satisfaction. Loyal customers purchase from
you again and again—and they sometimes even pay more
for your product. They forgive your mistakes. They provide
valuable feedback. They may require less service. They refer their friends (and sometimes even strangers). Moreover,
studying your loyal customers can give you a competitive
edge for acquiring new ones, since people with a similar
profile would likely be a great fit for your products.5

P r ic

y

TARGET
MARKET

ch

Customer loyalty is the payoff for delivering value and

t eg

tr

t

Te

11-2d  Customer Loyalty

ra
St

Pro m

Finding the right balance is tricky but clearly not
impossible. According to their scores on the American Customer Satisfaction Index, Ford’s Lincoln brand
offered top customer satisfaction in 2016, edging out
Honda to take the lead in the car category. Amazon’s
customer satisfaction continued to dominate among
Internet retailers, while Walmart’s score remains in the
basement among all retailers. Wikipedia is the social
media customer satisfaction winner. And among airlines, Jet Blue and Southwest tie for the top spot.4

Exhibit 11.2

u lt

The second trap is underpromising. If you don’t set
expectations high enough, too few customers will
be willing to try your product. The result will be a tiny
base of highly satisfied customers, which usually isn’t
enough to sustain a business.

S o c i a l /C

■■

Po

ic
lit

al

/L

target market, explain market segmentation, introduce
the marketing mix, and review the key factors in the
marketing environment. Taken together, these elements
will shape an effective marketing strategy, as shown in
Exhibit 11.2.
The marketer creates the marketing mix but responds
to the marketing environment with a single-minded focus
on the target market.
11-3a  Target Market
Your target market is
the group of people who
are most likely to buy your
product. This is where you
should concentrate your
marketing efforts. But why
not target your efforts toward everyone? After all,
even if most middle-aged
moms wouldn’t buy purple
polka-dotted miniskirts, an
adventurous few just might
do it. Well, you can always
hope for the adventurous
few, but virtually every business has limited resources,
and marketing toward the

customer loyalty When
customers buy a product from the
same supplier again and again—
sometimes paying even more for it
than they would for a competitive
product.

marketing plan A formal
document that defines marketing
objectives and the specific
strategies for achieving those
objectives.

market segmentation
Dividing potential customers
into groups of similar people, or
segments.

target market The group of
people who are most likely to buy
a particular product.

CHAPTER 11: Marketing: Building Profitable Customer Connections
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

195

■■

Size: There must be enough people in your target
group to support a business.

■■

Profitability: The people must be willing and able to
spend more than the cost of producing and marketing
your product.

■■

Accessibility: Your target must be reachable through
channels that your business can afford.

■■

Limited competition: Look for markets with limited
competition; a crowded market is much tougher
to crack.

11-3b  Consumer Markets versus

Business Markets

Consumer marketers (B2C) direct their efforts
to people who are buying products for personal consumption (e.g., granola bars, toothpaste, and clothing),
whereas business marketers (B2B) direct their
consumer marketers (also
efforts
to customers who
known as business-toare buying products to use
consumer or B2C) Marketers
who direct their efforts toward
either directly or indirectly
people who are buying products
to produce other products
for personal consumption.
(e.g., lumber, insulation, and
business marketers (also
robots). But keep in mind
known as business-tothat the distinction between
business or B2B) Marketers
the market categories is not
who direct their efforts toward
in the products themselves;
people who are buying products to
use either directly or indirectly to
rather, it lies in how the
produce other products.
buyer will use the product.
For instance, shoes that you
demographic
segmentation Dividing the
buy for yourself are clearly
market into smaller groups based
a consumer product, but
on measurable characteristics
shoes that a bowling alley
about people, such as age,
buys for its customers are a
income, ethnicity, and gender.
business product. Similarly,
geographic segmentation
a computer that you buy
Dividing the market into smaller
for yourself is a consumer
groups based on where consumers
live. This process can incorporate
product, but a computer
countries, cities, or population
that your school buys for the
density as key factors.
computer lab is a business
psychographic
product. Both B2C and B2B
segmentation Dividing the
marketers need to choose
market into smaller groups based
the best target, but they
on consumer attitudes, interests,
tend to follow slightly differvalues, and lifestyles.
ent approaches.

196

11-3c  Consumer Market Segmentation
Choosing the best target market (or markets) for your
product begins with dividing your market into segments,
or groups of people who have similar characteristics. But
people can be similar in a number of different ways, so, not
surprisingly, marketers have several options for segmenting potential consumers.

Demographic B2C demographic segmentation
refers to dividing the market based on measurable characteristics about people such as age, income, ethnicity, and
gender. Demographics are a vital starting point for most
marketers. Chapstick, for instance, targets young women
with the Shimmer version of its lip balm, and Chevy Camaro
targets young men with money. Sometimes the demographic
makeup of a given market is tough to discern; African American
artists, for instance, create the bulk of rap music, yet Caucasian
suburban males form the bulk of the rap music market.

Geographic B2C geogra­phic segmentation refers
to dividing the market based on where consumers live. This
process can incorporate countries, or cities, or population
density as key factors. For instance, Ford Expedition does
not concentrate on ­European ­markets, where tiny, winding
streets and nonexistent parking are common in many cities.
Cosmetic surgeons tend to market their services more heavily
in urban rather than rural areas. And finding the perfect surfboard is easy in Hawaii but more challenging in South Dakota.

Psychographic B2C psychographic segmentation
refers to dividing the market based on consumer attitudes,
interests, values, and lifestyles. Toyota Prius, for instance,
targets consumers who care about protecting the
environment. A number of companies have found a highly
profitable niche providing upscale wilderness experiences
for people who seek all the pleasure with none of the pain

Darren Brode/Shutterstock.com

people who are most likely to buy your flamboyant
minis—say, teenage girls—will maximize the impact
of each dollar you spend. A well-chosen target market
embodies the following characteristics:

Who do you think is the target customer
for the Chrysler Pacifica?

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

(you enjoy the great outdoors, while someone else lugs
your gear, pours your wine, slices your goat cheese, and inflates your extra-comfy air mattress). Both magazine racks
and the Internet are filled with products geared toward
psychographic segments, including adventure travel sites,
Adventure Center.com, shoe-selling mega site Zappos
.com, and business and financial powerhouse WallStreetJournal.com. Note: Marketers typically use psychographics to complement other segmentation approaches
rather than to provide the core definition.

Exhibit 11.3

Marketing Mix

Behavioral B2C behavioral segmentation refers
to dividing the market based on how people behave toward various products. This category includes both the
benefits that consumers seek from products and how
consumers use the product. The Neutrogena Corporation,
for example, built a multimillion-dollar hair care business
by targeting consumers who wanted an occasional break
from their favorite shampoo. Countless products such as
Miller Lite actively target the low-carbohydrate consumer.
But perhaps the most common type of behavioral segmentation is based on usage patterns. Fast-food restaurants, for
instance, actively target heavy users (who, ironically, tend
to be slender): young men in their 20s and 30s. This group
consumes about 17% of their total calories from fast food,
compared to 12% for adults in general. Understanding the
usage patterns of your customer base gives you the option
of either focusing on your core users or trying to pull light
users into your core market.
11-3d  Business Market Segmentation
B2B marketers typically follow a similar process in segmenting their markets, but they use slightly different categories:

Geographic B2B geographic segmentation refers to dividing the market based on the concentration of customers.
Many industries tend to be highly clustered in certain
areas, such as technology in California and auto suppliers
in the “auto corridor” that stretches south from Michigan to
Tennessee. Geographic segmentation, of course, is especially common on an international basis, where variables
such as language, culture, income, and regulatory differences can play crucial roles.

Customer-Based B2B customer-based segmentation
refers to dividing the market based on the characteristics of
customers. This approach includes a range of possibilities.
Some B2B marketers segment based on customer size.
Others segment based on customer type. ­
Johnson &
Johnson, for example, has a group of salespeople dedicated
exclusively to retail accounts such as Target and Publix,
while other salespeople focus solely on motivating doctors
to recommend their products. Other potential B2B markets

include institutions—schools and hospitals, for instance,
are key segments for Heinz Ketchup—and the government.

Product-Use–Based B2B product-use–based segmentation refers to dividing the market based on how customers will use the product. Small and midsized companies
find this strategy especially helpful in narrowing their target markets. Possibilities include the ability to support certain software packages or production systems or the desire
to serve certain customer groups, such as long-distance
truckers or restaurants that deliver food.
11-3e  The Marketing Mix
Once you’ve clearly defined your
challenge is to develop compelling strategies for product, price, distribution, and
pro­motion. The blending
of these elements becomes
your marketing mix, as
shown in Exhibit 11.3.
■■

Product Strategy:
Your product involves
far more than simply
a tangible good or

target market, your next
behavioral segmentation
Dividing the market based on how
people behave toward various
products. This category includes
both the benefits that consumers
seek from products and how
consumers use the products.

marketing mix The blend of
marketing strategies for product,
price, distribution, and promotion.

CHAPTER 11: Marketing: Building Profitable Customer Connections
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

197

Color me . . . hungry?!
Have you ever noticed that fast-food restaurants typically
feature vivid shades of red, yellow, and orange in both
their logos and their décor? Think McDonald’s, KFC,
Burger King, and Pizza Hut. The color choice is no coincidence.
Marketing researchers have learned that consumers in the
United States associate red with energy, passion, and speed.
Yellow suggests happiness and warmth, while orange suggests
playfulness, affordability, and fun. A simulated cocktail party
study found that partygoers in red rooms reported feeling
hungrier and thirstier than others, and guests in yellow rooms
ate twice as much as others. The implication? Surrounding
customers with red, yellow, and orange encourages them to
eat a lot quickly and leave, which aligns nicely with the goals
of most fast-food chains.
Color psychology is a powerful—though often overlooked—
marketing tool. Colors evoke emotions and trigger specific
behaviors, which can dramatically influence how people buy
your product. Here is a list of common colors and some of their
associations in U.S. mainstream culture.

Love, passion, warmth, food, excitement,
action, danger, need to stop

RED

Power, trustworthiness, calm, success,
seriousness, boredom

BLUE

Money, nature, health, healing, decay,
illness

GREEN

ORANGE

Playfulness, affordability, youth, fun,
low quality, cheap
Royalty, luxury, dignity, spirituality,
nightmares, craziness

PURPLE

WHITE

B L AC K

Purity, innocence, simplicity,
­mildness
Sophistication, elegance,
seriousness, sexuality, mystery, evil

Keep in mind that while some color ­associations are ­universal,
others can differ significantly among cultures. White, for
instance, signifies death and mourning in Chinese culture, while
purple represents death in Brazil.

a specific service. Product
strategy decisions range from
brand name, to product image,
to package design, to customer service, to guarantees,
to new product development,
and more. Designing the best
product clearly begins with
understanding the needs of
your target market.

198

David P. Smith/Shutterstock.com

But there is more for marketers to consider than simply color
associations. Research shows that the relationship between
brands and color hinges on the perceived appropriateness of
the color being used for the particular brand (in other words,
the color must “fit” what is being sold). Purchasing intent is
greatly affected by colors due to the impact that colors have on
how a brand is perceived. This means that colors influence how
consumers view the “personality” of the brand in question. For
example, picture a stick of deodorant targeted at women, and
then picture a stick of deodorant targeted at men. Research
suggests that men prefer bold colors while women prefer
softer ones. Interestingly, blue dominates as the favorite color
for both men and women.
As a marketer, your goal should be to align your color choice
with the perceptions of your target market and the features
of your product. The result should be more green for your
bottom line!6

■■

“Don’t find customers
for your products,
find products for your
customers.”
—SETH GODIN,
ENTREPRENEUR AND AUTHOR

Pricing Strategy: Pricing is a
challenging area of the marketing mix. To deliver customer
value, your prices must be fair,
relative to the benefits of your
product. Other factors include
competition, regulation, and
public opinion. Your product
category plays a critical role
as well. A low-cost desk, for

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

instance, might be appealing, but who would want
discount-priced knee surgery?
■■ Distribution Strategy:

The goal is to deliver your
product to the right people, in the right quantities, at the
right time, in the right place. The key decisions include
shipping, warehousing, and selling outlets (e.g., the
Web versus network marketing versus brick-and-mortar
stores). The implications of these decisions for product
image and customer satisfaction can be significant.

■■

Exhibit 11.4

Analyzing Promotional Strategies
Who is the target audience for each of these smartphone websites? How does each site position the
product relative to the competition? Which strategy
is most effective? Why?

Promotion Strategy: Promotion includes all of
the ways that marketers communicate about their
products. The list of possibilities is long and growing,
especially as the Internet continues to evolve at breakneck speed. Key elements today include advertising,
personal selling, sales promotion, public relations,
word of mouth, and product placement. Successful
promotional strategies typically evolve in response to
both customer needs and competition. A number of
­innovative companies are even inviting their customers to participate in creating their advertising through
venues such as YouTube. Check out Exhibit 11.4 to see
how easily you can analyze promotional strategies.

11-3f  The Global Marketing Mix
As you decide to enter foreign markets, you’ll need to
reevaluate your marketing mix for each new country. Should
it change? If so, how should it change? Many business goods
simply don’t require much change in the marketing mix,
since their success isn’t dependent on culture. Examples
include heavy machinery, cement, and farming equipment.
Consumer products, however, often require completely
new marketing mixes to effectively reach their consumers.
Nike’s approach to marketing in China offers an interesting example of how one firm managed the complex
process of building a successful business in a foreign market. When Nike first entered China in the 1990s, the company seemed to face an insurmountable challenge: not
only did a pair of Nike sneakers cost twice the Chinese
average monthly salary, but most Chinese just didn’t play
sports, according to Terry Rhoads, then director of Nike
sports marketing. So he boldly set out to change that.
Rhoads created a Nike high-school basketball league,
which has since spread to 17 cities. To loosen up fans, he
blasted canned cheering during games and arranged for
national TV coverage of the finals. He even leveraged connections with the NBA to bring Michael Jordan for visits.
The gamble quickly paid off, as the Chinese middle class
emerged—along with more individualistic values, which
are a strong fit with the Nike ethos. By 2001, Nike had
dubbed its marketing approach “hip hoop,” which they

described as an effort to “connect Nike with a creative lifestyle.” Sales in 2011 exceeded $2 billion, driven largely by
basketball shoes, although sales began to soften in 2012
and 2013, due to fierce competition and deep discounting. In 2014, Nike continued to lose traction in China, due
in part to fierce competition from Adidas. Analysts also
pointed out that among other reasons, “Nike’s branding
is based on encouraging strong identification with iconic
sports-stars it uses to endorse its products. In a culture
where parents are excessively focused on academic
achievement, such a strategy has limited appeal.” Nike
CHAPTER 11: Marketing: Building Profitable Customer Connections

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

199

Marketing to Millennials May Mean Melding with
Pop Culture . . .
. . . because millennials don’t just shape pop culture—they
actually create it through how they live their lives. A recent
survey of millennials yielded the following interesting findings:
▪▪ 68% of millennials say: “Fans have at least some ownership
of the things they’re fans of.”
DMITRY SEREBRYAKOV/Getty Images

▪▪ 70% say: “I choose activities that will give me things to post.”
▪▪ 70% say: “We filter our social media feeds to only see what
we want to see.”
▪▪ 61% say: “I can influence popular culture.”
▪▪ 51% say: “Messaging is just as personal as talking in person.”
▪▪ 48% say: “I feel like I know my favorite celebrity.”
▪▪ 29% say: “I post things that make my life look better than it
really is.”
In order for marketers to reach millennials, the United State’s
largest living generation, they should consider helping them
in their quest to shape pop culture. One example of a
brand that has done this successfully is Red Bull. The hugely
popular energy drink periodically organizes “Flugtag”
events in cities around the world. These events challenge
participants to build and fly home-made, human-powered
flying machines that are launched off a pier into the sea or
another large body of water. Most competitors enter just for

emerged from its slump in 2015 with a powerful sales
surge in China (despite the turbulence in the Chinese
economy). Analysts anticipate that Nike’s growth will continue because the NBA has begun investing in China—a
move that will only help Nike.8
11-3g  T
 he Marketing Environment
While marketers actively influence the elements of the
marketing mix, they must anticipate and respond to the
elements of the external environment, which they typically cannot control. Environmental scanning is a key
tool; the goal is simply to continually collect information
from sources that range
from informal networks to
environmental scanning
industry newsletters, to the
The process of continually
general press, to customers,
collecting information from the
to suppliers, to the competiexternal marketing environment.
tion, among others. The key
market share The percentage
elements of the external
of a market controlled by a given
environment include the
marketer.
following components:

200

fun, and the flying machines often don’t fly at all. You can
certainly see how this event would lead to a huge amount of
posting, messaging, and other social media activity. Another
high-impact option for marketers is to sponsor events that
millennials care about. Bank of America, for example, is
a top-level partner in Ocean Conservancy’s International
coastal cleanup, which sends hundreds of volunteers to
remove debris from beaches—a hot-button issue for millennials. Partnering with celebrities or social media influencers
can also yield strong results for marketers, assuming that
there is a strong fit with their brands.7

Competitive The dynamic competitive environment probably affects marketers on a day-to-day basis
more than any other element. Understanding the competitive environment often begins with analysis of market
share, or the percentage of the marketplace that each
firm ­controls. To avoid ambushes—and to uncover new
opportunities—you must continually monitor how both
dominant and emerging competitors handle each element
of their marketing mix. And don’t forget indirect competitors, who meet the same consumer needs as you, but with
a completely different product (e.g., Altoids vs. Scope).

Economic The only certainty in the economic environment is change, but the timing of expansions and contractions is virtually impossible to predict. Your goal as a marketer
is to identify and respond to changes as soon as possible,
keeping in mind that a sharp eye sees opportunity even in
economic downturns. For instance, affordable luxuries and
do-it-yourself enterprises can thrive during recessions.

Social/Cultural The social/cultural element covers a vast array of factors, including lifestyle, customs,

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

EXHIBIT 11.5 ELEMENTS THAT INFLUENCE THE CONSUMER DECISION-MAKING PROCESS
Influence

Description

Cultural

Culture: The values, attitudes, and customs shared by members of a society
Subculture: A smaller division of the broader culture
Social Class: Societal position driven largely by income and occupation

Social

Family: A powerful force in consumption choices
Friends: Another powerful force, especially for high-profile purchases
Reference Groups: Groups that give consumers a point of comparison

Personal

Demographics: Measurable characteristics such as age, gender, or income
Personality: The mix of traits that determines who you are

Psychological

Motivation: Pressing needs that tend to generate action
Attitudes: Lasting evaluations of (or feelings about) objects or ideas
Perceptions: How people select, organize, and interpret information
Learning: Changes in behavior based on experience

language, attitudes, interests, and population shifts. Trends
can change rapidly, with a d
­ ramatic impact on marketing decisions. Anticipating and responding to trends can
be especially important in industries such as entertainment, fashion, and technology. In late 2009, for instance,
Facebook removed some key privacy controls from its
News Feed. The social media giant did not anticipate the
black eye it received from outraged consumers who believed that Facebook had violated their privacy. Facebook
was also surprised that the privacy controls it implemented
in May 2010, which required consumers to opt out of sharing, would not be enough to appease ­privacy advocates.9

Technological Changes in technology can be very
visible to consumers (e.g., the introduction of the iPhone).
However, technology often affects marketers in ways that
are less directly visible. For example, technology allows mass
customization of Levi’s blue jeans at a reasonable price and
facilitates just-in-time inventory management for countless
companies that see the results in their ­bottom lines.
Political/Legal The political/legal area includes
laws, regulations, and political climate. Most U.S. laws
and regulations are clear (e.g., those declaring dry counties in certain states), but others are complex and evolving (e.g., qualifications for certain tax breaks). Political
climate includes changing levels of governmental support for various business categories. Clearly, the political/
legal issues affect heavily regulated sectors (e.g., telecommunications and pharmaceuticals) more than others.
11-3h  The Global Marketing Environment
As the Internet has grown, the world market has become accessible to virtually every business. This boosts

the importance of understanding each element of the
marketing environment—competitive, economic, social/
cultural, technological, and political/legal—in each of your
key markets. Among the biggest global challenges are researching opportunities in other countries and delivering
your product to customers in other countries.

11-4

CUSTOMER BEHAVIOR:
DECISIONS, DECISIONS,
DECISIONS!

If successful marketing begins with the customer, then understanding the customer is critical. Why do people buy
one product, but not another? How do they use the products they buy? When do they get rid of them? Knowing
the answers to these questions will clearly help you better
meet customer needs.
11-4a  Consumer Behavior

Consumer behavior refers specifically to how people
act when they are buying products for their own personal consumption. The
decisions they make often
consumer behavior
seem spontaneous (after all,
Description of how people act
how much thought do
when they are buying, using, and
discarding goods and services for
you give to buying a pack
their own personal consumption.
of gum?), but they often
Consumer behavior also explores
result from a complex set
the reasons behind people’s
of influences, as shown in
actions.
Exhibit 11.5.
CHAPTER 11: Marketing: Building Profitable Customer Connections

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

201

Marketers, of course, add their own influence
through the marketing mix. For instance, after smelling
pretzels in the mall and tasting pretzel morsels from the
sample tray, many of us would at least be tempted to
cough up the cash for a hot, buttery pretzel of our own . . .
regardless of any other factors! Similarly, changes in the
external ­environment—for example, a series of hurricanes
in Florida—­dramatically affect consumer decisions about
items such as flashlights, batteries, and plywood.
All these forces shape consumer behavior in each step
of the process regarding purchase decisions. Exhibit 11.6
shows how the consumer decision process works.
Clearly, marketing can influence the purchase decision every step of the way, from helping consumers identify needs (or problems), to resolving that awful feeling of
cognitive dissonance (or kicking oneself ) after a major
purchase. Some marketers attempt to avoid cognitive dissonance altogether by developing specific programs to help
customers validate their purchase choices. One example
might be post-purchase mailings that highlight the accolades received by an expensive product.
But does every consumer go through every step
of the process all the time? That’s clearly not the case!
People make low-involvement decisions (such as buying
that candy bar) according to habit . . . or even just on a
whim. But when the stakes are high—either financially
or socially—most people move through the five steps
of the classic decision-making process. For example, most
of us wouldn’t think of buying a car, a computer, or the
“right” pair of blue jeans without stepping through the
decision-making process.

Exhibit 11.6

Consumer Decision Process

Post-Purchase

relatively formal process. And finally, business buyers tend
to seek (and often secure) highly customized goods, services, and prices.

11-5

11-4b  Business Buyer Behavior

Business buyer behavior refers to how people act
when they’re buying products to use either directly or
indirectly to produce other
products (e.g., chemicals,
cognitive dissonance
copy paper, computer
Consumer discomfort with a
servers). Business buyers
purchase decision, typically for a
typically have purchasing
higher-priced item.
training and apply rational
business buyer behavior
criteria to their decisionDescribes how people act when
making process. They usuthey are buying products to use
either directly or indirectly to
ally buy according to
produce other products.
purchase specifications and
objective standards, with a
marketing research The
process of gathering, interpreting,
minimum of personal judgand applying information to
ment or whim. Often, busiuncover marketing opportunities
ness buyers are integrating
and challenges, and to make
input from a number of inbetter marketing decisions.
ternal sources, based on a

202

MARKETING RESEARCH:
SO WHAT DO THEY
REALLY THINK?

If marketing begins with the customer, marketing research
is the foundation of success. Marketing research involves gathering, interpreting, and applying information to
uncover opportunities and challenges. The goal, of course,
is better marketing decisions: more value for consumers
and more profits for businesses that deliver. Companies
use marketing research to:
■■

Identify external opportunities and threats (from social
trends to competition).

■■

Monitor and predict customer behavior.

■■

Evaluate and improve each area of the marketing mix.

Most successful marketers rely on research to develop
breakthrough products and effective marketing programs.
But research will never replace the creative potential of the

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

O O P S! W H AT W E R E T H E Y T H I N K I N G ?
“If you can’t be a good example, then you’ll just have to serve as a horrible warning.”
Even the heavy hitters make marketing gaffes. Their
biggest mistakes are often entertaining, but they also
serve as a powerful warning to consult with the customer before
taking action. A few amusing examples:
▪▪ Polite men everywhere know it’s never wise to talk to a
woman about her weight. Too bad some big corporations
don’t seem to have gotten the message. In 2013, annoyed
by the lack of larger clothing at retailer Abercrombie & Fitch,
customers demanded an explanation. Apparently, the CEO
“doesn’t want his core customers to see people who aren’t
as hot as them wearing his clothing.” Also in 2013, Target
displayed a dress for sale, described as “Dark Heather Gray”
for all but the plus size version, which was described as
“manatee gray.” Ouch!
▪▪ In late 2013, Burger King, in the wake of adding the
French Fry Burger and reduced calorie Satisfries to their
menu, pretended to change their name to Fries King,
and uploaded a raft of photos to their Facebook page
documenting the “new corporate I.D.” The result was
massive confusion, which mostly played out in a blizzard
of baffled tweets.
▪▪ Another tough year for social media marketing was 2014.
Union Street Guest House hotel in New York threatened to
fine wedding parties $500 for every negative social media
post and online review that their guests posted. And
Minnesota retailer Global Village—showing a remarkable
lack of sensitivity—commemorated Martin Luther King
Day by offering “25% off everything black” via its Facebook
page.
▪▪ In 2015, several large companies made news for being
oddly oblivious to implications of date rape in their

marketing. A Bloomingdale’s Christmas catalog included
an image of a man at a party leering at a woman who
was laughing and looking the other direction. The
image’s caption read: “Spike your best friend’s eggnog
when they’re not looking.” Similarly, Anheuser-Busch
used the tag line “The perfect beer for removing ‘no’
from your vocabulary for the night” on the labels of
several Bud Light bottles. Both ads ignited a firestorm
of criticism.
▪▪ In 2016, the U.S. State Department tweeted, “Not a ‘10’
in the US? Then not a 10 overseas. Beware of being
lured into buying expensive drinks or worse—being
robbed. #springbreakingbadly,” as part of its annual
campaign to promote safe travel practices. The Tweet
immediately offended followers, since it seemed to
imply that if you’re unattractive here, you’re unattractive
there—and you could be robbed. As if that weren’t
enough, it coldly punctured the time-honored vacation
fantasy of overseas romance. Not surprisingly, the tweet
sparked a number of parodies, including this tweet:
“If you are a ‘3’ in the United States you must carry
a ‘hand-written’ letter of apology with you in order
to travel”; and this Gawker headline: “The U.S. State
Department Warns Americans That No One Could
Possibly Find You Attractive.”
These fiascos only highlight the importance of marketing
research (combined with common sense). But sometimes,
even research isn’t enough to identify marketing issues before
they hit. At that point, the priority should shift to dealing with
the mistake openly, honestly, and quickly, which can help a
company win the game, despite the gaffe.10

EXHIBIT 11.7 RESEARCH DATA COMPARISON
Secondary Data

Primary Data

Existing data that marketers gather or purchase

New data that marketers compile for the first time

Tends to be lower cost

Tends to be more expensive

May not meet your specific needs

Customized to meet your needs

Frequently outdated

Fresh, new data

Available to your competitors

Proprietary—no one else has it

Examples: U.S. Census, the Wall Street Journal, Time magazine, your
product sales history

Examples: Your own surveys, focus groups, customer comments, mall
interviews

CHAPTER 11: Marketing: Building Profitable Customer Connections
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

203

gifted individual. Steve Jobs, founder of Apple, famously
declared, “A lot of times, people don’t know what they
want until you show it to them.”

unnecessary. But if not, your secondary research will guide
your primary research and make it more focused and
relevant, which ends up saving time and money.

11-5a  Types of Data

11-5b  Primary Research Tools

There are two main categories of marketing research data—
secondary data and primary data—each with its own
set of benefits and drawbacks, as shown in Exhibit 11.7.
Clearly, it makes sense
to gather secondary data
secondary data Existing
before you invest in pridata that marketers gather or
mary research. Look at your
purchase for a research project.
company’s internal inforprimary data New data that
mation. What does previous
marketers compile for a specific
research say? What does
research project.
the press say? What can
observation research
you find on the Web? Once
Marketing research that does not
you’ve looked at the secrequire the researcher to interact
ondary research, you may
with the research subject.
find that primary research is

There are two basic categories of primary research: observation and survey. Observation research happens
when the researcher does not directly interact with the
research subject. The key advantage of watching versus asking is that what people actually do often differs from what they say—sometimes quite innocently.
For instance, if an amusement park employee stands

“Marketing without data is like
driving with your eyes closed.”
—DAN ZARRELLA, SOCIAL MEDIA
S C I E N T I S T, H U B S P O T

There Is No “Me” in Sustainability—but Maybe
There Should Be!

Recycling is mainly a guilt-avoidance activity,
but could it actually be a fun teachable
moment with your kids? Eating sustainably
can mean better tasting food and weight
loss, with less pesticides or unhealthy food
additives. Natural body care products may
smell nicer and are gentle on sensitive skin.
Washing your hair less or in a shorter shower
maintains natural shine and prevents split
ends. These are tiny benefits, but when
was the last sustainability campaign that
promised any direct personal benefits at all?11

204

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Syda Productions/Shutterstock.com

Recent research suggests that an overwhelming majority of people around the world care about sustainability. What’s more,
they are finally willing to put their money where their mouth is and actually buy eco-friendly products—even if they are a
little pricier than conventional products or are not quite the same quality. Even so, a surprisingly small number of eco-friendly
products have broken through into the mainstream in a significant way. One example of a big success is hybrid cars. The
reason may be that hybrid cars answer the age-old question of “What’s in it for me?” While most eco-friendly products offer
broad planetary benefits such as cleaner oceans or more trees or cleaner air, they don’t offer direct personal benefits. Hybrid
cars offer planetary benefits, to be sure, but they also offer the direct personal benefits of better gas mileage and a highly
visible symbol that tells the rest of the world that the driver has adopted an eco-friendly technology (and is paying a little
extra to do so). There is much to be said for appealing to our better intentions and higher purpose, but perhaps there is more
marketing success to be had in promising customers
direct personal benefits. Unilever’s sustainable living
hub expands on this idea:

outside an attraction and records which way people
turn when they exit, he may be conducting observation
research to determine where to place a new lemonade
stand. Watching would be better than asking because many people could not honestly say which way
they’d likely turn. Examples of observation research
include:
■■

Scanner data from retail sales
Traffic counters to determine where to place billboards

■■

Garbage analysis to measure recycling compliance

■■

Observation research can be both cheap and amazingly effective. A car dealership, for instance, can survey
the preset radio stations on every car that comes in for
service. That information helps them choose which stations to use for advertising. But the biggest downside of
observation research is that it doesn’t yield any information
on consumer motivation—the reasons behind consumer
decisions. The preset radio stations wouldn’t matter, for
example, if the bulk of drivers listen only to their iPods
in the car.
Survey research happens when the researcher
does interact with research subjects. The key advantage is that you can secure information about what
people are thinking and feeling, beyond what you can
observe. For example, a carmaker might observe that
the majority of its purchasers are men. They could use
this information to tailor their advertising to men, or
they could do survey research and possibly learn that
even though men do the actual purchasing, women
often make the purchase decision . . . a very different
scenario! But the key downside of survey research is
that many people aren’t honest or accurate about their
experiences, opinions, and motivations, which can make
survey research quite misleading. Examples of survey
research include:
■■

Telephone and online questionnaires

■■

Door-to-door interviews

■■

Mall-intercept interviews

■

Focus groups

■

Mail-in questionnaires

11-5c  An International Perspective
Doing marketing research across multiple countries
can be an overwhelming challenge. In parts of Latin
America, for instance, many homes don’t have telephone connections, so the results from telephone surveys could be very misleading. Door-to-door tends to

be a better approach. But in parts of the Middle East, researchers could be arrested for knocking on a stranger’s
door, especially if they aren’t dressed according to local
standards. Because of these kinds of issues, many companies hire research firms with a strong local presence
(often based in-country) to handle their international
marketing research projects.

11-6

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
AND TECHNOLOGY: A MAJOR
MARKETING SHIFT

Two key factors have had a dramatic impact on marketing in the past couple of decades: a surge in the social
responsibility movement, and the dramatic emergence of
the Internet and digital technology. This section will cover
how each factor has influenced marketing.
11-6a Marketing and Society:

It’s Not Just about You!

Over the past couple of decades, the social responsibility movement has a­ ccelerated in the United States,
demanding that marketers actively contribute to the
needs of the broader community. Leading-edge marketers have responded by setting a higher standard in
key areas such as environmentalism, a­bolishment of
sweatshops, and involvement in the local community.
Starbucks, Target, and General Electric, for instance, all
publish corporate responsibility reports that evaluate
the social impact of how the companies run their
­businesses, and all highlight their programs on their
corporate websites.

Green Marketing Companies employ green marketing when they actively promote the ecological
benefits of their products. Toyota has been especially
successful promoting the
green benefits of its Prius
(although, like all carmaksurvey research Marketing
research that requires the
ers, Toyota has struggled
researcher to interact with the
during the global finanresearch subject.
cial crisis and, more regreen marketing
cently, during the Japanese
Developing and promoting
earthquake and tsunami).
environmentally sound
Its strategy highlights
products and practices to gain a
fuel economy and percompetitive edge.
formance, implying that
CHAPTER 11: Marketing: Building Profitable Customer Connections

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

205

Innovation: Unleashed!
To help you make those kinds of jumps, the game in this
box uses rebus puzzles to stretch your creativity.
Rebus puzzles present common words and
phrases in novel orientation to each other.
The goal is to determine the meaning. The
puzzles are below, and the answers are at
the bottom of the box.

ARREST
YOU’RE

HISTORY
HISTORY
HISTORY

SK8
iiiiiiiiiii
iiiiiiiii

print

funny funny
words words words words

ST4ANCE

herring

MEREPEAT

BAN ANA

Shut
Sit

Jack

Symphon

Answers: You’re under arrest, too funny for words, history repeats itself, for instance, skate on thin ice, red herring, small print, repeat
after me, banana split, Jack-in-the-Box, sit down and shut up, unfinished symphony

75% of the engagement on a
Facebook post happens in the
first five hours.
— D I G I TA L I N S I G H T S

consumers can “go green” without making any real sacrifices. Environmentally friendly fashion offers another
emerging example of green marketing. Over the past few
years, a number of designers have rolled out their versions of upscale ecofashion. In addition to clothing made
of organic cotton, recent entries include vegan stilettos
with four-inch heels, bamboo dresses, biodegradable
umbrellas, and solar-powered jackets. (These jackets feature solar cells, integrated into the collar, that collect solar
energy and route it to charge devices.) Green marketing
items are aimed at a growing number of consumers
who make purchase decisions based (at least in part) on
their convictions. But reaching these consumers may be
an increasing challenge
in tough economic times,
mass customization The
when low prices trump all
creation of products tailored for
other considerations for
individual consumers on a mass
a growing swath of the
basis.
population.12

206

11-6b Technology and Marketing:

Power to the People!

The emergence of the digital age has revolutionized every
element of marketing. Perhaps the most dramatic change
has been a shift in power from producers to customers.
The Internet gives customers 24/7 access to information
and product choices from all over the world. In response,
competition has intensified as marketers strive to meet an
increasingly high standard of value.
But technology has also created opportunities for
marketers. The Internet has opened the door for mass
customization: creating products tailored for individual consumers on a mass basis. Using sophisticated data
collection and management systems, marketers can now
collect detailed information about each customer, which
allows them to develop one-on-one relationships and to
identify high-potential new customers. Through the Web,
marketers can tap into (or even create) communities of
users that yield valuable information about their goods
and services. Technology also helps marketers lower costs,
so they can deliver greater value to their customers.
The digital boom has also created an abundance
of promotional opportunities, as marketers reach out
to consumers via new tools, such as interactive advertising, virtual reality displays, text messaging, and
video kiosks. We’ll discuss these tools in more detail in
Chapter 12.

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Kues/Shutterstock.com

In today’s hyper-competitive marketplace, businesses must
differentiate their products from an astonishing array of
alternatives. While life-changing innovation is rare, many
successful products simply provide a new twist on an existing
product. Examples include Wish-Bone’s salad dressing spritzers,
Nike’s neon-colored Flyknit athletic shoes, and Yoplait’s
squeezable, Go-gurt yogurt snack tubes.

THE BIG PICTURE
Since the ultimate goal of most marketing
is long-term profitability, a core marketing
principle must infuse every facet of a successful organization:
the need to deliver products that exceed customer expectations. The customer must come first for every department—
including finance, accounting, engineering, manufacturing, and
human resources—although the specifics of how that plays out

will clearly differ for each organizational function. Competition
in the future will only intensify. Customer choices will continue
to multiply as globalization and technology march forward.
While these forces will weed out the weaker players, firms with a
deeply engrained marketing orientation and a strong customer
focus will continue to flourish—delivering value to their stakeholders, and dollars to their bottom line.

CAREERS IN MARKETING
Brand Manager
Drive the overall performance and profitability of a brand or group
of brands. Establish the brand image and position in relation to
competitors. Formulate and implement creative and effective

STUDY TOOLS

marketing strategies. Manage and motivate creative teams that
support the brand’s development. Understand and integrate
overall corporate goals into brand strategies. ­Communicate brand
performance to senior management. ­Communicate key brand
information to both internal and external stakeholders.

11

LOCATED AT BACK OF THE TEXTBOOK
■■

Rip-Out Chapter Review Card

■■

Gain unique perspectives on key concepts with new concept
videos in the e-book
Increase your comprehension with online homework and
quizzes

■■

■■

Study with existing flashcards and make your own

CHAPTER 11: Marketing: Building Profitable Customer Connections
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

207

12

Product and Promotion:

Creating and Communicating Value

LEARNING OBJECTIVES
After studying this chapter, you will be able to:
12-1 Explain “product” and identify product classifications

PAGE 234

12-3 		 Discuss innovation and the product life cycle

for additional

12-4 		 Analyze and explain promotion and integrated marketing communications

STUDY TOOLS

12-5 		 Discuss development of the promotional message
12-6 		 Discuss the promotional mix and the various promotional tools

12-1

PRODUCT: IT’S PROBABLY MORE THAN YOU THOUGHT

When most people hear the term “product,” they immediately think of the
material things that we buy, use, and consume every day: for example,
a can of Pepsi, or a pair of True Religion jeans. But from a marketing
standpoint, product means much more. A product can be anything that
a company offers to satisfy consumer needs and wants; the possibilities
include not only physical goods but also services and ideas. A charity
event, cosmetic surgery, and a cooking lesson all qualify as products.
When you buy a product, you also “buy” all of the attributes
associated with the product. These encompass a broad
range of qualities, such as the brand name, the image, the
packaging, the reputation, and the guarantee. From a consumer standpoint, these attributes (or the lack of these
product Anything that an
attributes) are part of the
organization offers to satisfy
product purchase, even if
consumer needs and wants,
they don’t add to its value.
including both goods and services.
As a marketer, it’s worth

208

your while to carefully consider each element of your product to ensure that you’re maximizing value without sacrificing profitability. With the introduction of the translucent,
multicolored iMac computers in 1998, Apple established
its reputation for creating value through product design—
an attribute that other PC manufacturers completely overlooked as they churned out their inventories of boring,
beige boxes. Over the years, Apple has continued to polish its reputation by introducing sleek, elegantly designed
products such as its iPad tablet computers and its iPhones.

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Dean Drobot /Shutterstock.com

Remember to visit

12-2 Describe product differentiation and the key elements of product planning

12-1a

Services: A Product by Any Other Name

If a “product” includes anything that satisfies consumer
needs, services clearly fit the bill. But services have some
obvious differences from tangible goods. You often cannot
see, hear, smell, taste, or touch a service, and you can virtually never “own” it. After math tutoring, for example, you
might possess sharper algebra skills, but you don’t own
the tutoring experience (at least not literally). Most services
embody these qualities:
■■

■■

Intangibility: You typically cannot see, smell, taste, or
touch a service before you buy it. Clearly, this creates
a lot of uncertainty. Will the purchase really be worthwhile? Smart marketers mitigate the uncertainty by
giving clues that suggest value. For example, the Culver
hotel, a funky, old-time showbiz hotel and restaurant,
plasters it’s walls with pictures of movie stars, and fills
its display space with moldering movie artifacts to
provide “evidence” of its movie credentials.
Inseparability: Try as you might, you simply can’t
separate the buyer of a service from the person who
­renders it. Delivery requires interaction between the
buyer and the provider, and the customer directly contributes to the quality of the service. Consider a trip to

“Don’t find customers for your
products; find products for your
customers.”
—SETH GODIN,
ENTREPRENEUR AND AUTHOR

the doctor. If you accurately describe your symptoms,
you’re likely to get a correct diagnosis. But if you simply
say, “I just don’t feel normal,” the outcome will likely be
different.
■■

Variability: This one ties closely to inseparability. A
talented massage therapist would probably help you
relax, whereas a mediocre one might actually create
tension. And even the talented massage therapist
might give better service at the end of the day than
at the beginning, or worse service on the day she
breaks up with her boyfriend. Variability also applies
to the difference among providers. A massage at a
top-notch spa is likely to be better than a massage at
your local gym.

■■

Perishability: Marketers cannot store services for
delivery at peak periods. A restaurant, for instance,
only has so many seats; they can’t (reasonably) tell

CHAPTER 12: Product and Promotion: Creating and Communicating Value
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

209

12-1b

Goods versus Services: A Mixed Bag

Identifying whether a product is a good or a service
can pose a considerable challenge, since many products contain elements of both. A meal at your local
Italian restaurant obviously includes tangible goods: you
definitely own that calzone. But someone else took your
order, brought it to the table, and (perhaps most importantly) did the dishes! Service was clearly a crucial part of
the package.
A goods and services spectrum can provide a valuable tool for analyzing the relationship between the
two. (See Exhibit 12.1.) At one extreme, pure goods
don’t include any services. Examples include a bottle
of ketchup or a package of socks. At the other extreme,
pure services don’t include any goods. Examples
include financial consulting or a piano lesson. Other
products—such as a meal at Pizza Hut—fall somewhere
between the poles.
12-1c

Product Layers: Peeling the Onion

When customers buy products, they actually purchase
more than just the good or service itself. They buy a complete product package that includes a core benefit, the actual product, and product augmentations. Understanding
these layers is valuable, since the most successful products delight consumers at each one of them.

Core Benefit At the most fundamental level, consumers
buy a core benefit that satisfies their needs. When you buy
a smartphone, the core benefit is communication. When
pure goods Products that do
not include any services.

pure services Products that
do not include any goods.

consumer products Products
purchased for personal use or
consumption.
business products Products
purchased to use either directly
or indirectly in the production of
other products.

210

you go to a movie, the core benefit is entertainment. And
when you go to the doctor, the core benefit is better health.
Most products also provide secondary benefits that help
distinguish them from other goods and services that meet
the same customer needs. A secondary benefit of a smartphone might include entertainment, since it probably plays
your music, too.
12-1d

Actual Product

The actual product layer, of course, is the product itself:
the physical good or the delivered service that­
provides the core benefit. The Samsung Galaxy S8 is
an actual good that provides the benefit of communication. A movie theater screening of Wonder Woman
is an actual service that provides the benefit of entertainment. Identifying the actual product is sometimes
tough when the product is a service. For example,
the core benefit of visiting a doctor might be better
health, but the actual product may be someone in a
white coat pokingand prodding you. Keep in mind
that the actual product includes all of the attributes that
make it unique, such as the brand name, the features,
and the packaging.

Augmented Product Most marketers wrap their actual products in additional goods and services, called the
augmented product, that sharpen their competitive edge.
Augmentations come in a range of different forms. Many
upscale movie theaters in L.A. display props from movies
that have played in that theater. Most smartphones come
with warranties or insurance and offer at least some customer service. And some doctors might give you sample
pills until you can get your prescription filled.
12-1e 
Product Classification:

It’s a Bird, It’s a Plane…

Products fall into two broad categories—­consumer products and business products—depending on the
reason for the purchase. Consumer
products are purchased for personal use or consumption, while
b
­ usiness products are purchased to use either directly
or indirectly in the production of another product.
The shoes in your closet
at home are a consumer
product, while the shoes
­
that you rent at the bowling
alley are a business product.

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Amero/Shutterstock.com

their 8 p.m. dinner customers to come back the next
day at 5 p.m. Similarly, major tourist destinations, such
as Las Vegas, can’t store an inventory of room service
deliveries or performances of Cirque du Soleil. This
creates obvious cost issues; is it worthwhile to prepare
for a peak crowd but lose money when it’s slow? The
answer depends on the economics of your business.

Exhibit 12.1

Goods and Services Spectrum
Pure
Goods

Pure
Services
Bottle of Ketchup
Package of Socks

­ romotion tends to be
p
aggressive to drum up
­consumer interest. Disability insurance and prepaid
burial plots (especially
for young people) and
blood donations are some
examples.

Business Product Categories Marketers also

Financial Consulting
Piano Lesson

divide business products
into subcategories. Here,
too, understanding the subcategories can lead to better
marketing strategies.

Consumer Product Categories Marketers further
divide consumer products into several different subcategories, as shown below. Understanding the characteristics
of the subcategories can help marketers develop better
strategies.
■■ Convenience products are the inexpensive goods
and services that consumers buy frequently with
­limited consideration and analysis. Distribution
tends to be widespread, with promotion by the
­producers. Examples include staples such as
toothpaste and shampoo, impulse items such as
magazines and candy bars, and emergency ­products
such as headache tablets and plumbing services.
■■ Shopping products are the more expensive products that
consumers buy less frequently. Typically, as consumers
shop, they search for the best value and learn more
about features and benefits through the shopping process. Distribution is widespread but more selective than
for convenience products. Both producers and retailers
tend to promote shopping products. Examples include
cars, computers, and cell phone service.
■■ Specialty products are those much more expensive
products that consumers seldom purchase. Most
people perceive specialty products as being so
­important that they are unwilling to accept substitutes. Because of this, distribution tends to be highly
selective. (Consumers are willing to go far out of
their way for the “right” brand.) Both producers and
retailers are apt to promote specialty products but to
a highly targeted audience. Some specialty product
examples are high-end sports cars, branded jewelry,
and weight reduction surgery.
■■

Unsought products are the goods and services that
hold little interest (or even negative interest) for
­consumers. Price and distribution vary wildly, but

■■

Installations are large capital purchases designed for a
long, productive life. The marketing of installations emphasizes personal selling and customization. Examples
include industrial robots, new buildings, airplanes, and
railroad cars.

■■

Accessory equipment includes smaller, movable capital
purchases, designed for a shorter productive life than
installations. Marketing focuses on personal selling
but includes less customization than installations.
Examples include personal computers, power tools,
and furniture.

■■

The maintenance, repair, and operating products
category consists of small-ticket items that businesses
consume on an ongoing basis but don’t become part
of the final product. Marketing tactics emphasize efficiency. Examples include cleaning supplies, lightbulbs,
and copy paper.

■■

Raw materials include the farm and natural products used in producing other products. Marketing
emphasizes price and service rather than product
differentiation. Examples include cotton, timber,
and wheat.

■■

Component parts and processed materials include
finished (or partially finished) products used in
producing other products. Marketing emphasizes
product quality as well as price and service. Examples include batteries and spark plugs for cars,
aluminum ingots for soda cans, and Intel computer
chips.

■■

Business services are those services that businesses
purchase to facilitate operations. Marketing focuses
on quality and relationships; the role of price can vary.
Examples include payroll services, janitorial services,
and legal services.

CHAPTER 12: Product and Promotion: Creating and Communicating Value
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

211

A Fascination with Failure—So Bad It’s Good!
A brand-new museum is opening in Sweden, with the goal of celebrating “the absurd and hilarious wrong turns that companies have
taken in their product development.” According to museum founder Samuel West, “Every failure is uniquely spectacular, while success is
nauseatingly repetitive. True innovation requires learning from the complexities of each failure.”Some highlights from the museum:
▪▪ Toothpaste company Colgate offered frozen food like beef lasagna in the 1980s.
▪▪ Coca-Cola offered Coca-Cola BlaK—a coffee-flavored cola drink—from 2004 until 2006.
▪▪ Cult motorcycle brand Harley Davidson flopped delightfully with its “Hot Road” perfume.

12-2

P RODUCT DIFFERENTIATION
AND PLANNING: A
MEANINGFUL DIFFERENCE

Windows operating system. By 2013, Nokia, once the
dominant player in cell phones, had sold its entire
handset business to Microsoft.

While some products have succeeded with little or no
forethought, you’ll dramatically boost your chance of a
hit with careful planning. Product differentiation
should be a key consideration. Winning products must
embody a real or perceived difference versus the glut
of goods and services that compete in virtually every
corner of the market. But different alone isn’t enough;
different from, and better than, the competition are both
critical in order to create the shortest path to success.
A quick look at some high-profile product failures
illustrates the point.
■■

■■

■■

Vegetable Jello: Few kids today would name Jello
as their favorite dessert, and back in the 1960s, even
fewer were fans of vegetable-flavored Jello (think celery, tomato, mixed vegetable, and Italian salad), which
was soon yanked from the market.
Clear Beer: In the 1990s, several companies introduced clear beers, reflecting an ill-fated obsession
with clear products, including shampoo, soap, and
the short-lived, clear Crystal Pepsi.
Lumia 900: Nokia introduced the Lumia 900 phone
in early 2012 for just $100 with a two-year contract.
The price soon dropped to $50, but even that didn’t
spur sales, mostly due to a dearth of apps for its

product differentiation The
attributes that make a good
or service different from other
products that compete to meet the
same or similar customer needs.

212

■■

Funky French Fries: In 2002, Ore-Ida introduced
Funky Fries. The flavors included cinnamon-sugar,
chocolate, and “radical blue.” Not surprisingly, they
were off the market in less than a year.

■■

Cocaine Energy Drink: In 2006, Redux Beverages
brought Cocaine Energy Drink to market, calling it
a “legal alternative” to the illegal drug in form of an
energy drink, and describing the beverage, which
had no actual cocaine in it, as a “fruity, atomic
fireball” drink. Redux was forced to pull Cocaine
off the shelves in the United States in 2007 when
the FDA declared that its producers were “illegally
marketing their drink as an alternative to street
drugs.”1

12-2a

Product Quality

Product quality relates directly to product value, which
comes from understanding your customer. Peter
Drucker, a noted business thinker, writer, and educator,
declared:
Quality in a product or service is not what the supplier
puts in. It’s what the customer gets out and is willing
to pay for. A product is not quality because it is hard
to make and costs a lot of money . . . this is incompetence. Customers pay only for what is of use to them
and gives them value. Nothing else constitutes quality.

“Give them quality.
That’s the best kind
of advertising.”
— M I LT O N H E R S H E Y

In other words, a high-quality
product does a great job meeting
customer needs. Siemens, a huge
electronics conglomerate, embodies this thinking in its approach to
quality: “Quality is when our customers come back and our products don’t.”

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

relationship between price and performance, consistent
delivery can offer a competitive edge at almost any quality level.
Honda offers an excellent example. When most
people consider the Accord, the Civic, and the CRV, all
Honda-owned models, quality quickly comes to mind.
And all three dominate their markets. But clearly, the
quality levels (and price) are different for each. The Accord
serves the upper, more conservative end of the market;
the Civic tends to appeal to younger, hipper, more
budget-minded consumers; the CRV tends to appeal to
middle-of-the-road shoppers seeking a reliable, small
SUV. In short, Honda succeeds at delivering product
consistency at several markedly different quality levels.

EXHIBIT 12.2    PRODUCT QUALITY INDICATORS
Product Category

Some Quality Indicators

Cell Phones

Design, brand, number of apps, graphics, memory, battery life, memory, and
customer service

Kids’ Toys

Safety, expert endorsements, and
educational and entertainment value

Cars

Horsepower, design, fuel efficiency, brand,
resale value, reliability, and awards

Water Parks

Thrill factor, design, cleanliness, variety,
and ­setting

Coffee

Taste, brand, price, country of origin, and
additives (or lack of )

12-2b
But the specific definition of quality—and the attributes that indicate quality—changes across product categories.See Exhibit 12.2 for a few examples.
Regardless of product category, the two key aspects of quality are level and consistency. Quality
level refers to how well a product performs its core
functions. You might think that smart companies
deliver the highest possible level of performance,
but this is seldom profitable, or even desirable. For
instance, only a tiny group of consumers would pay
for a speedboat to go 200 mph, when 80 mph offers a
sufficient thrill (at least for most of us!). The right
level of product performance is the level that meets
the needs of your consumers, and those needs include
price. Decisions about quality level must also consider the competition. The goal is to outperform the
other players in your category while maintaining
profitability.
The second dimension of quality is product
consistency. How consistently does your product actually deliver the promised level of quality? With a positive

Features and Benefits

Product features are the characteristics of the product you offer. If a product is well designed, each feature
corresponds to a meaningful customer benefit.
The marketer’s challenge is to design a package of
features that offers the highest level of value for an
acceptable price. And the equation must also account
for profitability goals.
One winning formula may be to offer at least some
­low-cost features that correspond to high-value benefits. Creating an “open
kitchen” restaurant, for inquality level How well a
stance, has limited impact
product performs its core functions.
on costs but gives patrons
product consistency How
an exciting, up-close view
reliably a product delivers its
of the drama and hustle of
promised level of quality.
professional food prepaproduct features The
ration. Exhibit 12.3 lists
specific characteristics of a product.
some other examples of
customer benefit The
product features and their
advantage that a customer gains
corresponding customer
from specific product features.
benefits.

EXHIBIT 12.3    PRODUCT FEATURES AND CUSTOMER BENEFITS
Product

Product Feature

Customer Benefit

Subway Sandwiches

Lower fat

Looser pants

Costco

Rock-bottom prices on a huge range of higher end
products and services

More cash for other needs

Whole Foods Market

Organic produce

A healthier planet

Stella McCartney Clutch

Highly fashionable

Feeling chic

Triple Latte

Caffeine, caffeine, caffeine

More time to, uh, study

CHAPTER 12: Product and Promotion: Creating and Communicating Value
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

213

12-2c

Product Lines and the Product Mix

Some companies focus all of their efforts on one product,
but most offer a number of different products to enhance
their revenue and profits. A product line is a group of
products that are closely related to each other in terms of
either how they work or the customers they serve. Sony,
for example, carries a wide range of digital cameras and
accessories, to meet the needs of as many different customers as possible. A product mix is the total number
of product lines and individual items sold by a single firm.
Sony’s product mix ranges from cameras to electronics, to
phones, to music, to video game consoles, to entertainment (games, movies, music, etc.).
Decisions regarding how many items to include in each
product line and in the overall product mix can have a huge
impact on a firm’s profits. With too few items in each line,
the company may be leaving money on the table. With too
many items, the company may be spending unnecessarily
to support its weakest links.
One reason that firms add new product lines is to
reach completely new customers. Gap, for instance, added
Old Navy to reach younger, lower-income customers, and
Banana Republic to reach older, higher-income customers.
Each line includes a range of different products designed
to meet the needs of their specific customers. But one
risk of adding new lines—especially lower-priced lines—
is c­ annibalization, which happens when a new entry
“eats” the sales of an existing line. This is especially dangerous when the new products are lower-priced than the
current ones. You could see
the problem, for instance,
product line A group of
if a $20 blue jean purchase
products that are closely related
from Old Navy replaces
to each other, either in terms of
a $50 blue jean purchase
how they work or the customers
from Gap; the company has
they serve.
lost more than half its revproduct mix The total
enue on the sale. Like other
number of product lines and
individual items sold by a single
companies with multiple
firm.
lines, Gap carefully monitors
the cannibalization issue
cannibalization When a
producer offers a new product that
and works to differentiate
takes sales away from its existing
its lines as fully as possible.
products.

brand A product’s identity—
including product name, symbol,
design, reputation, and image—
that sets it apart from other players
in the same category.

brand equity The
overall value of a brand to an
organization.

214

12-2d

Branding

At the most basic level, a
brand is a product’s identity that sets it apart from
other players in the same
category. Typically, brands
represent the combination

of elements such as product name, symbol, design, reputation, and image. But today’s most powerful emerging
brands go far beyond the sum of their attributes. They project a compelling group identity that creates brand fanatics:
loyal customers who advocate for the brand better than
any advertising a marketer could buy. The overall value of a
brand to an o
­ rganization—the extra money that consumers will spend to buy that brand—is called brand equity.
Since 2001, BusinessWeek and Interbrand, a leading
brand consultancy, have teamed up to publish a ranking
of the 100 Best Global Brands by dollar value. The top ten
brands are listed in Exhibit 12.4, but you can find the complete list at Interbrand’s website.

Brand Name A catchy, memorable name is among
the most powerful elements of your brand. While the right
name will never save a bad business, it can launch a good
business to new heights. But finding the right name can
be tough. According to the respected Brighter Naming
consulting group, the following characteristics can help:
1. Short, sweet, and easy to pronounce and spell: Examples include Sprite, H&M, GE, Nike, and Visa.
2. Unique within the industry: Think Caterpillar, Yahoo!,
Starbucks, Zara, and Google.
3. Good alliteration, especially for long names: The words
should roll off your tongue. Some examples are Coca-­
Cola, BlackBerry, Dunkin Donuts, Weight Watchers, and
Minute Maid.2

EXHIBIT 12.4    BUSINESSWEEK/INTERBRAND
TOP TEN GLOBAL BRANDS 2016
Brand

Country of Ownership

Apple

United States

Google

United States

Coca-Cola

United States

Microsoft

United States

Toyota

Japan

IBM

United States

Samsung

South Korea

Amazon

United States

Mercedes-Benz

United States

GE

United States

Source: Interbrand Website, http://interbrand.com/best-brands/best-global-brands/2016/ranking/,
accessed September 2017.

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

EXHIBIT 12.5    BRAND NAME CATEGORIES
Category

Description

Examples

Location-Based

Refers to either the area served or the place of origin

Southwest Airlines, Bank of America, Best Western Hotels

Founder’s Name

Can include first name, last name, or both

McDonald’s, Dell Computer, Ford, ­Disney, Jenny Craig

Descriptive or Functional

Describes what the product is or how it works

eBay, U.S. News and World Report, ­Subway, Krispy Kreme

Evocative

Communicates an engaging image that resonates
with consumers

Yahoo!, ­Craftsman, Virgin, Intel, Cosmopolitan, Starbucks,
Apple, SpaceX, Oculus Rift

Brand names typically fall into four categories, as described in Exhibit 12.5.

Line Extensions versus Brand Extensions As
companies grow, marketers look for opportunities to
grow their businesses. Line extensions are similar
products offered under the same brand name. Possibilities
include new flavors, sizes, colors, ingredients, and forms.
One example is Lays potato chips, which offers more
than 45 versions, including BBQ, Baked, Flamin Hot, Chili
Limon, Bacon Mac & Cheese, and Cheesy Garlic Bread.
The marketing challenge is to ensure that line extensions
steal market share from competitors rather than from the
core brand.
Brand extensions, on the other hand, involve
launching a product in a new category under an existing brand name. The Bic brand, for instance, is quite elastic,
stretching nicely to include diverse products such as pens,
glue, cigarette lighters, and disposable razors. The Virgin
brand demonstrates similar elasticity, covering more than
350 companies that range from airlines to cell phones, to
soft drinks, to cars. But the concept of brand extension becomes most clear (and most entertaining) through examining brand extension failures. Examples include Bic perfume,
Budweiser Dry, Colgate (yes, the toothpaste brand!) frozen
dinners, and Harley-Davidson Cologne. Apparently there is
some mysterious link between lighter fluid and perfume.
Zippo offers perfume, too.3

Licensing Some companies opt to license their brands
from other businesses. Licensing means ­purchasing—
often for a substantial fee—the right to use another company’s brand name or symbol. The benefits are instant name
recognition, an established reputation, and a proven track
record. On a worldwide basis, the best-known licensing arrangements are probably character names, which range from
Bart Simpson to SpongeBob and appear on everything from
cereal to toys, to underwear. Many movie producers also do
high-profile licensing, turning out truckloads of merchandise
that features movie properties such as Batman and Frozen.

Another fast-growing area is the licensing of corporate
or college names. Coca-Cola, for instance, claims to have
more than 300 licensees who sell over a billion dollars of
licensed merchandise each year. The potential benefits for
Coca-Cola are clear: more promotion, increased exposure,
and enhanced image. But the risk is significant. If licensed
products are of poor quality or overpriced, the consumer
backlash hits the core brand rather than the producer of
the licensed product.

Cobranding Cobranding is when established
brands from different companies join forces to market the
same product. This cooperative approach has a long history but is currently enjoying a new popularity. Examples
include:
■ T.G.I. Friday’s markets a broad (and very popular)

range of Jack Daniel’s-flavored foods.
■■

Dairy Queen worked with Girl Scouts to offer the
hugely popular limited-edition Thin Mint Blizzard.

Cobranding can offer huge
advantages to both partners, by
leveraging their strengths to enter new markets and gain more
exposure. But cobranding can
be risky. If one partner makes a
major goof, the fallout can damage the reputation of the other
partner as well.

National Brands versus
Store Brands National
brands, also called manufacturers’ brands, are brands that
the producer owns and markets. Many are well known and
widely available, such as Oreo
cookies, Dial soaps, and Nutella.
Although most retailers carry
lots of national brands, an

line extensions Similar
products offered under the
same brand name.
brand extension A new
product, in a new category,
introduced under an existing
brand name.

licensing Purchasing the
right to use another company’s
brand name or symbol.
cobranding When
established brands from
different companies join
forces to market the same
product.

national brands Brands
that the producer owns and
markets.

CHAPTER 12: Product and Promotion: Creating and Communicating Value
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

215

Sheila Fitzgerald/Shutterstock.com

Archer Farms, Target’s high-quality food
label, is one of the most popular and
successful store brands.

differentiate your product from all the others lined up
beside it. Yet, in attracting consumer attention, a good
package cannot sacrifice the basics such as protecting
the product.6
Bottom line: great packaging stems from consumer
needs, but it usually includes at least a smidge of creative brilliance. Examples include yogurt in a pouch
that doesn’t need a spoon, soup-to-go that can be
microwaved in the can, “anti-theft” clear sandwich
bags printed with mold-like green splotches (seriously!),
and single-serving baby carrot packets that moms can
toss into kids’ lunches.

12-3
increasing number have opted to also carry their own versions of the same products, called store brands, or private label. Deep discounters, such as Walmart and Costco,
have had particular success with their private-label brands
(e.g., Sam’s Choice and Kirkland). Private labels play a growing role in grocery stores as well. In the United States, more
than one out of four g
­ rocery purchases is private label, and
the numbers are even higher in Europe, hitting half of all
grocery sales in a number of markets. Since the global recession, private-label brand sales have grown more than
twice as fast as national brand sales. The growing influence
and increasing quality of low-end, private-label brands increase the pressure on national brands to continually innovate while holding down prices.4
At the upper end of the market—especially in the
clothing business—key retailers specialize in private
brands to create and protect a consistent, upscale image.
Examples include Neiman Marcus, Coldwater Creek, and
Saks Fifth Avenue.5
12-2e

Packaging

Great packaging does more than just hold the product.
It can protect the product, provide information, facilitate storage, suggest product uses, promote the product brand, and attract buyer attention. Great packaging
is especially important in the crowded world of grocery
stores and mass merchandisers. In the average supermarket, the typical shopper passes about 300 items per minute and makes anywhere
from 20% to 70% of purstore brands Brands that
chases on sheer impulse.
the retailer both produces and
In this environment, your
distributes (also called privatepackage must call out to
label brands).
your target customers and

216

I NNOVATION AND THE PRODUCT
LIFE CYCLE: NUTS, BOLTS,
AND A SPARK OF BRILLIANCE

For a business to thrive long term, effective new product development is vital. And the process works only if it
happens quickly. As technological advances hit the market at breakneck speed, current products are becoming
obsolete faster than ever before. The need for speed
compounds as hungry competitors crowd every niche of
the market. But the rush is risky, since new product development costs can be in the millions, and the success
rate is less than a third. Marketers who succeed in this
challenging arena devote painstaking effort to understanding their customers, but they also nurture the
creativity they need to generate new ideas. An example
of how this can work: the 3M Corporation—makers of
Post-it Notes and Scotch Tape—introduces about 500
new products per year by pushing its employees to
“relentlessly ask, ‘What if?’” Some innovative firms, such
s Google, Facebook, and LinkedIn, also encourage
workers to spend 20% of their work time (paid work
time!) on projects of personal interest.7
12-3a

Types of Innovation

Clearly, the first personal computer represented a higher
degree of newness than the first personal computer with
a color screen. And the computer with a color screen represented a higher degree of newness than the first lowcost knockoff. Levels of innovation fall along a spectrum,
as shown in Exhibit 12.6.

Discontinuous Innovation Discontinuous innovations
are brand-new ideas that radically change how people
live. Examples include the first car, the first television,

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

new product success. The standard model includes six
stages:

Exhibit 12.6

Levels of Innovation

Idea Generation

Idea Screening

Analysis

Discontinuous
Innovation

Development

Testing
Commercialization

Each stage requires management to “green light”
ideas before moving forward, to ensure that the company
doesn’t waste resources on marginal concepts.

Dynamically
Continuous
Innovation

■■

Idea Generation: Some experts estimate that it
takes 50 ideas for each new product that makes it to
market, so you should definitely cast a wide net. Ideas
can come from almost anywhere, including customer
research, customer complaints, salespeople, engineers, suppliers, and competitors.

■■

Idea Screening: The purpose of this stage is to
weed out ideas that don’t fit with the company’s
objectives and ideas that would clearly be too
expensive to develop. The Walt Disney Company, for
instance, would certainly eliminate the idea of an XXX
cable channel because it just doesn’t fit their mission.

■■

Analysis: The purpose of the analysis stage is to estimate costs and forecast sales for each idea to get a
sense of the potential profit and of how the product
might fit within the company’s ­resources. Each idea
must meet rigorous ­standards to remain a contender.

■■

Development: The development process leads to
detailed descriptions of each concept with specific
product features. New product teams sometimes also
make prototypes, or samples, that consumers can
actually test. The results help fully refine the concept.

Continuous
Innovation

and the first computer. These dramatic innovations require
extensive customer learning, which should guide the
marketing process.

Dynamically Continuous Innovation Dynamically continuous innovations are characterized by marked
changes to existing products. Examples include cell
phones, Blu-ray Discs, and digital cameras. These types of
innovations require a moderate level of consumer learning
in exchange for significant benefits.

Continuous Innovation A slight modification of an
existing product is called a continuous innovation. Examples include new sizes, flavors, shapes, packaging, and design. The goal of continuous innovation is to distinguish
a product from the competition. The goal of a knockoff
is simply to copy a competitor and
offer a lower price.
12-3b The New Product

Development Process

An efficient, focused development
process will boost your chances of

Testing: This stage involves the formal process of
soliciting feedback from consumers by testing the
product concept. Do they like
the features? Are the benefits
“You can’t wait for
meaningful? What price makes
inspiration, you have to
sense? Some companies also
go after it with a club.”
test-market their products or sell
them in a limited area to evalu—JACK LONDON, AUTHOR
ate the consumer response.
■■

CHAPTER 12: Product and Promotion: Creating and Communicating Value
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

217

■■

Commercialization: This stage entails introducing
the product to the general market. Two key success
factors are gaining distribution and launching promotions. But a product that tested well doesn’t always
mean instant success. The VW Beetle, for example, sold
only 330 cars during its first year in the United States,
but it later became a hit.

12-3c

New Product Adoption and Diffusion

Ralph Gillen/Shutterstock.com

In order to become a commercial success, new products must spread throughout a market after they are
introduced. That process is called diffusion. But diffusion
clearly happens at different speeds, depending on the
individual consumer and on the product itself.

Product Adoption Categories Some consumers like to try new things; others seem terrified of change.
These attitudes clearly affect the rate at which individual
people are willing to adopt (or begin buying and using)
new products. The first adopters, about 2.5% of the total, are
adventurous risk takers. The laggards, about 16% of the total, sometimes adopt products so late that earlier adopters
have already moved to the next new thing. The rest of the
population falls somewhere in between. Keep in mind that
individuals tend to adopt new products at different rates.
For instance, we probably all know someone who is an innovator in technology but a laggard in fashion, or vice versa.

Product Diffusion Rates Some new products diffuse into the population much more quickly than others.
For example, Apple iPods and Segway Human Transporters appeared on the market around the same time; iPods
became a pop culture icon, while Segways remained on
the fringe. What accounts for the difference? Researchers
have identified five product characteristics that affect the
rate of adoption and diffusion. The more characteristics a
product has, the faster it will diffuse into the population.
■■

■■

■■

218

Observability: How visible is the product to other
potential consumers? Some product categories are
easier to observe than others. If you adopt a new kind
of car, the whole neighborhood will know, plus anyone else who sees you on the streets and highways.
Trialability: How easily can potential consumers
sample the new product? Trial can be a powerful way
to create new consumers, which is why many markets fill their aisles with sample tables during popular
­shopping hours. Other examples of trial-boosting
strategies include test-driving cars, sampling music,
and testing new fragrances.
Complexity: Can potential consumers easily understand what your product is and how it works? If

Fifteen years ago, portable media players
like Apple’s iPod were rocketing into the
growth phase. Now, they are well into the
decline stage thanks to the proliferation of
always-connected smartphones.

your product confuses people—or if they find it hard
to explain to others—adoption rates will slow. For
example, many people who test-ride Segway Human
Transporters love the experience, but they have
trouble explaining to others how it works or why it
beats other transportation options.
■■

Compatibility: How consistent is your product
with the existing way of doing things? Cordless
phones, for example, caught on almost instantly,
since they were completely consistent with people’s
prior ­experiences—only better!

■■

Relative ­Advantage: How much better are the benefits of your new product compared to existing products? When gas prices climb, for example, the benefits
of a hybrid car take on a much higher value relative to
standard cars. As a result, demand skyrockets.

12-3d The Product Life Cycle: Maximizing

Results over Time

When marketers introduce a new product, they hope it
will last forever, generating sales and profits for years to
come. But they also realize that all products go through

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Exhibit 12.7

Product Life Cycle for a Typical Product Category
Profits tend to peak in Growth,
while sales tend to peak in Maturity

C

at

eg

or

y

Pr

ofit

s

Sales Volume

C

at
eg
or
y

Sa
le
s

.

Introduction

Growth

Maturity

Decline

Time (Y ears)

a ­product life cycle: a pattern of sales and profits that
­typically changes over time. The life cycle can be dramatically different across individual products and product categories, and predicting the exact shape and length of the
life cycle is virtually impossible. But most product categories do move through the four distinct stages shown in
Exhibit 12.7.
■■

■■

Introduction: This is a time of low sales and
nonexistent profits as companies invest in raising awareness about the product and the product
category. Some categories, such as the microwave,
languish in this phase for years, while other categories, such as computer memory sticks, zoom through
this phase. And some categories never get beyond
introduction. (Think clear beers.)
Growth: During the growth period, sales continue
to rise, although profits usually peak. Typically, competitors begin to notice emerging categories in the
growth phase. They enter the market—often with
new variations of existing ­products—which further
fuels the growth. Electric cars, plug-in hybrids, personal drones, and driverless cars are currently in the

growth phase, and a number of competitors have
recently entered the market.
■■

Maturity: During maturity, sales usually peak. Profits
continue to decline as competition intensifies. Once a
market is mature, the only way to gain more users is to
steal them from competitors rather than to bring new
users into the category. Weaker players begin to drop out
of the category. Gasoline-powered cars, sugared soda,
and network TV are in maturity in the United States.

■■

Decline: During this period, sales and profits begin to
decline, sometimes quite rapidly. The reasons usually relate to either technological change or change
in consumer needs. For instance, the introduction of
word processing pushed typewriters into decline, and
a change in consumer taste and habits pushed hot
cereal into decline. Competitors continue to drop out
of the category.

Familiarity with the
product life cycle helps marketers plan effective strategies for existing products and
identify profitable categories

product life cycle A
pattern of sales and profits that
typically changes over time.

CHAPTER 12: Product and Promotion: Creating and Communicating Value
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

219

EXHIBIT 12.8    THE PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE AND MARKETING STRATEGIES
Phase

Examples

Sales/Profits

Key Marketing Strategies

Introduction

Virtual reality games, fuel cell technology,
“smart” glasses

Low sales, low profits

Build awareness, trial, and distribution

Growth

Electric cars, eBook readers, mini tablets,
fitness trackers

Rapidly increasing
sales and profits

Reinforce brand positioning, often through heavy advertising

Maturity

Airlines, DVD players, ­personal computers, Flat sales and
online stock t­ rading, energy drinks
declining profits

Target competitors, while defending ­franchise with new
product features, ­competitive ­advertising, promotion,
and price cuts

Decline

Pagers, videocassettes

Reduce spending and consider terminating the product

Declining sales
and profits

for new products. Exhibit 12.8 summarizes typical marketing
strategies and offers examples for each phase.
Individual products also have life cycles that usually
follow the category growth pattern but sometimes vary
dramatically. Clearly, it’s in the marketer’s best interest to
extend the profitable run of an individual brand as long as
possible. There are several ways to make this happen: finding new uses for the product, changing the product, and
changing the marketing mix. For example, Dancing with
the Stars renews interest in their franchise by continually
introducing new celebrity contestants.

12-4

P ROMOTION: INFLUENCING
CONSUMER DECISIONS

Promotion is the power to influence consumers—to
remind them, to inform them, to persuade them. The
best promotion goes one step further, building powerful
consumer bonds that draw your customers back to your
product again and again. But don’t forget that great promotion only works with a great product. Bill Bernbach, an
ad industry legend, captures this concept by noting, “A
great ad campaign will make a bad product fail faster. It
will get more people to know it’s bad.”
Marketers can directly control most promotional tools.
From TV advertising to telephone sales, the marketer creates the message and communicates it directly to the target
audience. But, ironically, marketers cannot directly control
the most powerful promotional tools: publicity, such
promotion Marketing
as a comment on The View
communication designed to
or a review in Consumer Reinfluence consumer purchase
ports, and word-of-mouth,
decisions through information,
such as a recommendation
persuasion, and reminders.
from a close friend or even

220

a casual acquaintance. Marketers can only influence these
areas through creative promotional strategies.
12-4a Promotion in Chaos: Danger

or Opportunity?

Not coincidentally, the Chinese symbol for crisis resembles the symbols for danger and opportunity—a perfect
description of promotion in today’s market. The pace of
change is staggering. Technology has empowered consumers to choose how and when they interact with media,
and they are grabbing control with dizzying speed. Digital
TV and streaming movies continue to grow explosively.
In 2015, people around the globe spent more than eight
hours a day consuming media—much of it digital media—
which continues to grow rapidly as a percentage of total
media consumption. Meanwhile, more passive forms of
entertainment, such as network television, are slowly losing their audience. And those people who do still watch
TV are gleefully changing the schedules and zapping the
ads with TiVo or similar devices. As media splinter across
an array of entertainment options, usage patterns have
changed as well: tech-savvy viewers are more prone to
consume media in on-the-fly snacks rather than sit-down
meals. Also, services such as Netflix streaming and Hulu Plus
have led to an increase in binge viewing of entire seasons
of TV shows. Rising consumer power and the breakneck
pace of technology have created a growing need—and
a stunning opportunity—for marketers to zero in on the
right customers, at the right time, with the right message.9
12-4b Integrated Marketing Communication:

Consistency and Focus

How many marketing messages have you gotten in the
past 24 hours? Did you flip on the TV or radio? Surf the
Web? Notice a billboard? Glance at the logo on a T-shirt

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

or cap? Chat with a friend about some product he likes?
Marketing exposure quickly snowballs: the typical consumer receives about 3,000 advertising messages each
day. Some of those messages are hard to avoid as marketers find new, increasingly creative ways to promote their
products to a captive audience. The venues include elevators, taxicabs, golf carts, and other surprising settings.10
Given the confounding level of clutter, smart companies use integrated marketing communication
to coordinate their messages through every promotional vehicle—including their advertising, website, and
salespeople—creating a coherent impression in the minds
of their customers. Why bother coordinating all of these
elements? The answer is clear. Consumers don’t think
about the specific source of the communication; instead,
they combine—or integrate—the messages from all the
sources to form a unified impression about your product. If
the messages are out of sync or confusing, busy consumers won’t bother to crack the code. They’ll simply move on
to the next best option.
Can you really control every message that every consumer sees or hears about your product? It’s not likely.
But if you accurately identify the key points of contact between your product and your target market, you can focus
on those areas with remarkable effectiveness. For instance,
the most common points of contact for McDonald’s are
probably advertising and the in-store experience. From
upbeat commercials to smiling employees, to brightly
striped uniforms, McDonald’s spends millions of dollars
to support its core message of fast, tasty food in a clean,
friendly environment—heavily concentrated in the areas
that are key to its brand.
Other companies are likely to encounter the bulk of
their customers through different channels. You’d probably

learn about Dell computers, for example, through either its
website or word of mouth. Dell has invested heavily in both
areas. The company maintains an innovative, user-friendly
website that allows even novice users to create customized systems. And Dell delivers award-winning customer
service and technical support, which gets its customers to
recommend its products to family and friends.
12-4c Coordinating the Communication
Even after you’ve identified the key points of contact, coordinating the messages remains a challenge. In many companies, completely different teams develop the different
promotional areas. Salespeople and brand managers often
have separate agendas, even when the same executive
manages both departments. Frequently, disconnected
outside agencies handle advertising, web development,
and sales promotion programs. Coordinating the messages will happen only with solid teamwork, which must
begin at the top of the organization.
Information also plays a crucial role. To coordinate
marketing messages, everyone who creates and manages them must have free access to knowledge about the
customer, the product, the competition, the market, and
the strategy of the organization. Some of this information,
such as strategic goals, will come from the top down, but
a fair amount, such as information about the customer,
should come from the bottom up. Information must also
flow laterally across departments and agencies. The marketing research department, for instance, might have critical information about product performance, which might
help the web management agency create a feature page
that might respond to competitive threats identified by the
sales force. When all parties have access to the same data,
they are much more likely to remain on the same page.

Joseph Sohm/Shutterstock.com

12-5

With so much clutter in the marketplace,
coordinating messages can be a real
challenge.

A MEANINGFUL MESSAGE:
FINDING THE BIG IDEA

Your promotional message
begins with understanding
how your product is different from and better than
the competition. But your
positioning statement—
a brief statement that articulates how you want
your target market to envision your product relative to
the
competition—seldom
translates directly into the

integrated marketing
communication The
coordination of marketing
messages through every
promotional vehicle to
communicate a unified
impression about a product.

positioning statement A
brief statement that articulates
how the marketer would like the
target market to envision a product
relative to the competition.

CHAPTER 12: Product and Promotion: Creating and Communicating Value
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

221

promotional message. Instead, it marks the beginning of
the creative development process, often spearheaded by
ad agency creative professionals. When it works, the creative development process yields a big idea—a meaningful, believable, and distinctive concept that cuts through
the clutter. Big ideas are typically based on either a rational
or an emotional premise. Here are a few examples from the
last decade:

Rational:

Emotional:

Price:

Home Depot: “More ­saving.
More doing.”

Engineering:

Bose: “Better sound through
research”

Ingredients:

Snapple: “Made from the best
stuff on earth.”

Subway:

“Eat Fresh”

Imagination:

GE: “Imagination at work”

Humor:

Virgin Atlantic: “More ­experience
than our name suggests”

Fear:

Cancer Patient’s Aid ­Association:
“Cancer Cures Smoking”

Energy:

Nike: “Just do it”

Self-Esteem:

L’Oréal “Because you're worth it.”

Patriotism:

Marines: “The few. The Proud.
The Marines.”

Not surprisingly, funny ads are a consumer favorite,
although humor can be risky. For a record ten years in a
row, from 1998 through 2008, Budweiser—known for
using humor effectively—nabbed the top spot in
USA Today’s annual Ad Meter consumer ranking of
Super Bowl ads. But in 2009, a very funny “Free
Doritos” ad—created by talented amateurs in an
online contest sponsored by Frito-Lay—knocked
Budweiser off its pedestal. Budweiser regained the
top spot in 2011, sharing the honor with Doritos,
which, once again, took the top prize with a hilarious
customer-created ad. Doritos used the same strategy
to score a third win in 2012. In 2013, Budweiser held on
to the top spot with a heart-warming spot about the
bond between a trainer and his horse, while Doritos—
again using the same ­s trategy—fell to eighth place.
In 2015, Budweiser again held the top spot with an ad
about a puppy and a horse, while D
­ oritos’ customercreated ad took fifth place. In 2016, Doritos sported
two ads in the top ten, while Budweiser dropped to
ninth place. Hyundai snagged the top honors with a

222

In 2017, Kia Motors earned the top spot
on USA Today’s list of the best Super
Bowl ads for “Hero’s Journey.” In this
ad, Melissa McCarthy imagines herself
taking on various eco-friendly causes—
to disastrous results.

hilarious ad featuring an overprotective dad (played
by comedian Kevin Hart) following his daughter on
a first date. In 2017, Doritos opted out of advertising during the pricey Super Bowl. Budweiser’s 2017
Super Bowl ad took fourth place. Kia Motors took the
top spot with a hilarious ad featuring the ever-game
comedian Melissa McCarthy. 11
The best big ideas have entrenched themselves in
popular culture. A small sampling:
■■

The Energizer Bunny

■■

“Got Milk?”

■■

Budweiser: “Whassssuuup?!?!”

■■

GE: “We bring good things to life.”

■■

Motel 6: “We’ll leave the light on for you.”

12-5a

An International Perspective

Some big ideas translate well across cultures. The
Marlboro Man now promotes rugged individualism
­
across the globe. But other big ideas don’t travel as
smoothly. DeBeers tried running ads in Japan using their
proven strategy in the West: fabulously dressed women
smiling and kissing their husbands who have just given
them ­glittering diamonds. The ads failed in Japan because a Japanese woman would be more likely to shed a
few tears and feign anger that her husband would spend
so much money. The revised DeBeers campaign featured
a hardworking husband and wife in their tiny apartment.
Receiving a diamond, the wife chides her extravagant
husband: “Oh, you stupid!” The campaign was a wild
success. Taking a big idea to a foreign market can mean

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

big money and a powerful brand, but careful research
should still be your first step.12

12-6

T HE PROMOTIONAL MIX:
COMMUNICATING THE BIG IDEA

Once you’ve nailed your message, you need to communicate the big idea to your target market. The traditional
communication tools—or promotional channels—
include advertising, sales promotion, direct marketing,
and personal selling. But more recently, a number of new
tools have emerged, ranging from advergaming to Internet minimovies. The combination of communication tools
that you choose to promote your product is called your
“promotional mix.”
12-6a Emerging Promotional Tools:

The Leading Edge

In the past decade, the promotional landscape has
changed dramatically. Consumer expectations and empowerment have skyrocketed. Consumer tolerance for impersonal corporate communication has fallen. And digital
technology has surged forward at breakneck speed. As a
result, new promotional tools have emerged, and previously minor tools have burst into the mainstream. This
section covers several leading-edge promotional tactics,
but keep in mind that other tools—such as mobile phone
promotion, social media marketing, and widget-based
marketing—are growing explosively, too.

Search engine optimization (SEO) also demonstrated strong growth as the economy weakened. SEO
involves taking specific steps to ensure that your website
appears high on the list when customers look for your
product or service via an Internet search engine such as
Google or Yahoo!. Typically, the higher a firm appears,
the more ­traffic that site will receive from potential customers. Analysis from eMarketer suggest that most marketers worldwide do desktop SEO as a matter of course,
and will turn their efforts to mobile SEO over the next
few years, since that is where consumers make most of
their search queries.15
Online video advertising represents another highgrowth area. This includes the increasingly popular “pre-roll”
ads, the 15- to 30-second spots that viewers often sit through
before watching an online video on YouTube, Hulu, or many
other sites. According to eMarketer estimates, the growth will
continue to increase at a spectacular rate, more than tripling
from $4.14 billion in 2013 to nearly $15 billion in 2019.16

Social Media Clearly, social media—including Facebook,
Twitter, Blogger, Tumblr, Foursquare, and many o
­ thers—are
not a fad, but rather a paradigm shift in how successful businesses market themselves. According to advertising heavyweight Alex Bogusky, “You can’t buy attention anymore.
Having a huge budget doesn’t mean anything in social
media. . . . The old media paradigm was PAY to play. Now you
get back what you authentically put in.” And the evidence is
building that social media offer a truly impressive return on
investment, especially compared to traditional media. A few
examples compiled by social media expert Erik Qualman underscore the potential return on investment:
■■

Wetpaint/Altimeter study found companies that are
both deeply and widely engaged in social media
significantly surpass their peers in both revenues and
profits. The study also found the company sales with
the highest levels of social media activity grew on
average by 18%, while those companies with the least
amount of social activity saw their sales decline by 6%.

■■

BlendTec increased its sales five times by running the
often humorous “Will It Blend” videos on YouTube,
blending everything
from an iPhone to a
promotional channels
sneaker.
Specific marketing communication

■■

Dell sold $3,000,000
worth of computers on
Twitter.

■■

Ford Motor Company
gave away 100 Fiestas
to influential bloggers,

Internet Advertising Internet advertising has
been highly visible for more than a decade. But the industry has moved far beyond simple banner ads and
annoying pop-up ads. The highest growth areas include
paid search advertising, search engine optimization, and
online video advertising.
Paid search advertising includes both sponsored
links on Google that relate to the topic you’ve searched,
and targeted Google text ads on a number of different
websites—both of which are at the heart of Google’s
outsized financial success. Industry expert eMarketer
estimates that paid search advertising, including both
Google and other similar services, will top $40 billion
by 2019, with much of that spending targeting mobile.13 Paid search seems to be an especially attractive
tactic during tough economic times, since it offers high
accountability—marketers can tell exactly how well their
limited advertising dollars are working.14

vehicles, including traditional
tools, such as advertising, sales
promotion, direct marketing,
and personal selling, and newer
tools such as product placement,
advergaming, and Internet
minimovies.

CHAPTER 12: Product and Promotion: Creating and Communicating Value
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

223

mobile platforms. Overall, native advertising is still a relatively small part of marketers’ spending plans due to concerns about ethics and budget.18

Twin Design/Shutterstock.com

Product Placement Product placement—the

Social media offer marketers myriad
opportunities to reach consumers.

resulting in 37% of Generation Y learning of the Ford
Fiesta before it was launched in the United States.
■■

Debt relief firm CareOne found that customers gained
through social media completed their first payment
through the company, at a higher rate of 732%.

■■

Web host provider Moonfruit more than recouped its
$15,000 social media investment as its website traffic
soared 300% while sales increased 20%.

Looking ahead, smart marketers of both large and
small businesses are investing their limited resources in
social marketing and reaping an unprecedented return,
forging the future of marketing promotion.17

Native Advertising Across all media, but especially
Internet advertising and social media, native advertising is
a burgeoning category of advertising specifically designed
to mimic the user experience into which it is placed in
terms of form and function (picture the “suggested posts”
in your Facebook newsfeed that you as a user are much
more likely to read and click on than a typical banner ad,
or similarly, any of the first few options that come up on a
typical Google search). Native ads are often fully integrated
into a specific delivery platform, and are not always identified as advertising. They do look like the surrounding editorial content and they typically are relevant to it. Market
research firm eMarketer projects that native advertising
spending will increase nearly 75% between 2016 and 2018.
The company attributes
this rapid growth to a deproduct placement The
mand for more engaging,
paid integration of branded
less intrusive ads. Interestproducts into movies, television,
ingly, nearly 90% of native
and other media.
advertising is purchased on

224

paid integration of branded products into movies and TV—
exploded into big-screen prominence in 1982, when Reese’s Pieces played a highly visible role in Steven Spielberg’s
blockbuster film E.T. Reese’s Pieces sales shot up 65% (a
major embarrassment for the marketers of M&Ms, who had
passed on the opportunity). Over the years, product placement in movies has moved rapidly into the limelight. A few
notable examples are:
■■

Walking Dead: Sponsor Hyundai played a starring role
in this series about the zombie apocalypse, and the car
somewhat oddly remains incongruously clean as the
rest of the world decays.

■■

Modern Family (2010): An entire episode of the hit TV
show Modern Family revolved around the Apple iPad
two days before the tablet hit the stores.

■■

James Bond: This long-standing movie icon hawked so
many products in recent movies (e.g., Omega watches,
Heineken beer, British Airways, and most recently, in
Skyfall, Macallan whiskey) that it triggered a backlash
from annoyed moviegoers and critics.19

For many years, Apple took top honors in the movie
product placement contest, with its products appearing in
34.3% of all number-one films at the U.S. box office. But in
2012, Mercedes-Benz became the most frequently placed
brand in hit films, knocking Apple from the top spot. One
reason may be that in 2012, many more number-one films
were produced by Sony Studios than in the previous year,
all of which featured Sony electronics—effectively shutting Apple out completely. But in 2014, Apple was back,
showing up in 9 of the 35 number-one films. In 2015, Apple again lost the lead to Mercedes-Benz when the German auto maker appeared in 9 of the 31 top films. While
Apple and Mercedes-Benz were battling it out, Lego may
have won the greatest-ever product placement victory in
2014, when it generated an 11% increase in sales following the release of The Lego Movie (essentially a 2-hour ad
for the product). Lego built on that success with the release of The Lego Batman Movie in March 2017.20
In an interesting combination of promotional tactics,
product placement and online video have begun to
merge. In 2010, Lady Gaga’s YouTube smash hit video
Telephone featured no fewer than ten product placements.
Some of the placements, for instance, Miracle Whip, were
paid, while others, such as Virgin Mobile and Polaroid,
were extensions of existing partnerships with Gaga. In

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

International Intrigue—Not the 007 Kind!
▪▪ Pizza and a movie: Press play, call Dominos, and
pull out your wallet, right? Not so fast … at least not in
Brazil. You may be able to enjoy your pizza without spending
an extra dollar. Ten video rental stores have partnered with
Dominos to cover certain hit DVDs with thermal ink. As the
disc spins, the ink melts to reveal the sight and smell of a
Dominos pizza. Yum, yum!!

For the past couple of decades, news headlines have been
screaming about foreign countries as a seemingly endless
source of cheap labor that sucks away American jobs. And
millions of American jobs have indeed been exported overseas.
But a closer look suggests that foreign markets may also be an
intriguing source of new ideas—both new products and new
customers. A couple of examples:

▪▪ Shakey’s: A new lease on life in Asia. You may not
remember it, but Shakey’s Pizza was once a giant in the
pizza parlor market, with locations dotting street corners
across the United States. Although Shakey’s is no longer the
pizza mainstay it once was in America, the chain is a growth
brand in Asia. Adapting to its new home, Shakey’s now offers
toppings like egg, fish flakes, and mackerel paste to suit local
palates.21

▪▪ Crocs: Not the ultimate Fashion Don’t? While many
customers love their unsurpassed comfort level, the brightly
colored rubber clogs have been roundly ridiculed in the
United States for their silly appearance, even spawning
their own “I Hate Crocs” website and online store. But Crocs
don’t suffer the same reputation issues overseas. In China,
consumers see Crocs more as “an American brand similar to
Starbucks,” and in Russia, consumers tend to gravitate more
toward the brand’s fur-lined boots. Who knew?

2013, Avril Lavigne released her new single, “Rock N Roll,”
starting with a shot of her saying, “Oh, my new Sony
phone is ringing.” In 2014, 39 of the music videos on the
Billboard top 100 included product placement, with Beats
products appearing more than any other. Fans of the Netflix original series House of Cards have probably noticed
placements for Samsung, Fiji water, and other products.
Given its efficacy in reaching younger consumers, this approach seems sure to grow in the future.
Social media influencers are probably the biggest
growth area for product placement today. These influencers, often YouTube or Instagram stars, promote products
or services during their broadcasts in exchange for a fee.
Since influencers tend to have an authentic relationship
with their followers, they are more likely to disclose (and
even joke about) the promotional relationship in order to
maintain that authenticity. Product placement on TV has
catapulted into the mainstream in response to the growing prominence of digital video recorders (DVRs) such as
TiVo. Research suggests that 53% of U.S. households had
at least one DVR in 2016, up from fewer than 10% in 2005.
DVRs allow consumers not only to watch on their own
schedule but also to zap ads. Worried marketers see product placement as a chance to “TiVo-proof” their messages
by integrating them into the programming. Worldwide,
the United States is the largest product placement market,
but China is fastest growing. One notable example: Analysts estimate the media value of Macallan whiskey’s
appearance in the 2012 Bond film S­kyfall at well over
$9 million—plus a permanent place in Bond lore, which
many brands would consider priceless . . .22

Product placement works best for marketers if the
product seamlessly integrates into the show as a player
rather than simply a prop. For instance, it was hard to miss
Coke in American Idol. The judges were seldom without their
Coca-Cola–emblazoned cups, and during the early years of
the show a “Coke Couch” was used onstage. The price tag
for this exposure—including commercial time and online
content—was about $35 million. Media buyers often negotiate product placement deals as part of a package that includes regular ads, which reinforce the product that appeared
in the program (unless, of course, the ads are zapped).23
Whether in TV or movies, product placement offers marketers huge sales potential in a credible environment, which
may account for its huge growth rate. But product placement
is risky—if your show is a dud, your placement is worthless.
And the cost is high and growing, which only increases the
financial risk. The benefits of product placement are tough
to measure as well, especially for existing brands. But in the
end, the only measure that really counts is consumer acceptance, which may disappear if product placement intrudes
too much on the entertainment value of movies and TV.

Advergaming Interactive games have exploded into
pop culture; about 67% of U.S. consumers play some kind
of video game, and mobile gamers are the largest and
most vibrant segment. Not surprisingly, marketers have
followed closely behind, developing two promotional
advergaming Video games
channels: advergaming,
created as a marketing tool,
which
involves
video
usually with brand awareness as
games created as a marketthe core goal.
ing tool, usually with brand

CHAPTER 12: Product and Promotion: Creating and Communicating Value
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

225

Scandals Might Cut Hard, but They Don’t Seem
to Cut Deeply
You may remember a horrifying video from 2017 where a
Vietnam-born doctor was roughly dragged off a United Airlines
plane—blood running down his face—so that his seat could
be used by a United employee. Given the consumer outrage
directed at United, one would expect, and perhaps even hope,
that the incident would have a financial impact on the company.
But according to financial analysts, “Incidents like this rarely
pose lasting or significant financial headwinds for major transportation companies.” United stock fell a bit the day the video
came out, but analysts attributed that to mixed operational
data released that same morning.

You may also remember that Starbucks faced a call for a
boycott in 2017 after CEO Howard Schultz announced that
the coffee firm would hire 10,000 refugees globally. A few
months later, Schultz addressed the issue directly at the
company’s annual stockholder meeting: “I can unequivocally
tell you that there is zero, absolutely no evidence whatsoever
that there is any dilution in integrity of the Starbucks
brand, reputation, or our core business as a result of being
compassionate.”24

awareness as the core goal; plus advertising in the video
games themselves.
According to Massive, an advertising network that
specializes in video games, advergaming works for marketers. Gamers exposed to embedded ads show a 64%
increase in brand familiarity, a 37% increase in brand rating, and a 41% increase in purchase consideration; furthermore, rather than despising the ads, 55% of gamers
said they “look cool.” But Massive isn’t the only game in
town. In early 2007, Google purchased AdScape, a nimble video game advertising company, and independent
agency Double Fusion also provides fierce competition.
Despite the strong research results, analysts anticipate
that advergaming will move in a new direction over the
next few years, with deals that link brands with tangible
rewards for players. This approach still leaves room for
purely promotional in-game ads to support the out-ofgame campaigns. Given the explosive growth of mobile
gaming, and the growing willingness of gamers to buy
virtual goods (e.g., access to better game levels or to
products for their online avatars), gamers may soon see
a cyberworld filled with as much promotion as the real
world.25

Other popular terms for buzz marketing are “guerrilla
marketing” and “viral ­marketing.”
Not surprisingly, marketers have actively pursued buzz for
their brands, especially with the rising cost and diminishing
effectiveness of more traditional media channels. Innovative
buzz campaigns are typically custom designed to meet their
objectives, and they often cost significantly less than more traditional approaches. Here are some notable examples:

Buzz Marketing A recent study defined “buzz” as the
transfer of information from someone who is in the know
to someone who isn’t. Buzz is essentially word of mouth,
which now influences twothirds of all consumer prodbuzz marketing The active
stimulation of word of mouth
uct purchases. And it makes
via unconventional, and often
sense. In a world that’s inrelatively low-cost, tactics.
creasingly complex, people
Other terms for buzz marketing
turn to people they know
are “guerrilla marketing”
and “viral marketing.”
and trust to help sort the
garbage from the good stuff.

226

■■

Whopper Sacrifice: Burger King has been among
the most successful buzz marketers, using the Internet
to develop quirky and creative campaigns that have
quickly gone viral. In late 2009, Burger King invited customers to download their Whopper Sacrifice Facebook
application and use it to drop ten Facebook friends
in exchange for a free Angry Whopper coupon worth
$3.69. The application then bluntly notified each friend
that he or she had been dumped in exchange for
about $0.37 worth of burger. Consumers responded
in droves, apparently thankful for the excuse to purge
their friend lists. Burger King terminated the campaign
when Facebook requested that they terminate the “defriending” notification. But Burger King could still loudly
proclaim, “Your love for the Whopper sandwich proved
to be stronger than 233,906 friendships.”

90% of people trust online
recommendations from people they
know. Only 14% trust traditional TV
advertisements.
—SOCIALNOMICS

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Does Your Face Look Like a Taco?

■■

■■

Fitness First: This Dutch health club ambushed
unsuspecting commuters by displaying their weight
in neon lights when they took a seat at a bus bench
in Rotterdam. Yikes. Chances are good that they both
gained some new customers and scarred some other
potential customers for life!27

Source: Yum! Brands

itself. Meanwhile, Snapchat
continues to innovate,
quietly becoming the
most-used augmented
reality product in the world.
If Snapchat remains open
to creative advertising
opportunities like the Taco
Bell campaign, it may well
scoop up a hefty portion
of the billions of digital
advertising dollars that
marketers currently allocate
to Facebook and Google.26

Your face might have looked like a taco if you participated in Taco Bell’s wildly successful 2016 Cinco de Mayo
promotion with Snapchat. On May 5, 2016, Snapchat
featured a special effects lens that allowed users across the
country to change their faces into giant tacos. The result
was 224 million views in one day, shattering Snapchat’s
previous record. Snapchat has been relatively slow to move
into advertising. CEO Evan Spiegel has indicated some
reluctance about sharing user information to better target
ads, and parent company Snap insists on keeping some
creative control of all advertising. The firm even retains
the right to veto projects that it thinks look too much like
basic advertising. This caveat has annoyed some brands in
the past, but it helps to maintain the integrity of Snapchat

“Doing business without advertising
is like winking at a girl in the dark.
You know what you are doing but
nobody else does.”

ShareYourEars: Unlike the previous two examples,
some buzz campaigns are intended to spread positive
energy. The Walt Disney Corporation, in partnership
with the Make-A-Wish foundation, recently launched a
campaign to raise awareness and funds for terminallyill children. This campaign encouraged fans to share
images and selfies featuring Disney’s classic mouse ears
on Twitter and Instagram using the #ShareYourEars
hashtag. Disney pledged a $5 donation to the Make-AWish foundation for each participant, with a total cap of
$1 million. The campaign was eventually so successful
that Disney doubled its original pledge to $2 million.28

Sponsorships Sponsorships certainly aren’t new,
but they should experience healthy worldwide growth over
the next few years, led by a vibrant emerging national sponsorship market, particularly in Central and South America,
between the 2014 World Cup and the 2016 Olympic Games.
Sponsorships provide a deep association between a marketer and a partner (usually a cultural or sporting event).
Even though sponsors can’t usually provide more than simply their logo or slogan, consumers tend to view them in
a positive light, since they are clearly connected to events
that matter to the target audience. The best sponsorship
investments, of course, occur when the target audience for
the marketer completely overlaps the target audience for

— S T E U A R T H E N D E R S O N B R I T T,
MARKETING MANAGEMENT AND
A D M I N I S T R AT I V E A C T I O N

the event. The high level of integration between the sponsors and events can provide millions of dollars in valuable
media coverage, justifying the hefty price.29
12-6b Traditional Promotional Tools:

A Marketing Mainstay

Although new tools are gaining prominence, traditional
promotional tools—advertising, sales promotion, public
relations, and personal
selling—remain powerful.
sponsorship A deep
In fact, many marketers use
association between a marketer
and a partner (usually a cultural
the new tools in conjuncor sporting event), which involves
tion with the traditional
promotion of the sponsor in
to create a balanced, farexchange for either payment or
reaching promotional mix.
the provision of goods.

Advertising The formal
definition of advertising
is paid, nonpersonal communication, designed to
influence a target audience

advertising Paid, nonpersonal
communication, designed to
influence a target audience with
regard to a product, service,
organization, or idea.

CHAPTER 12: Product and Promotion: Creating and Communicating Value
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

227

EXHIBIT 12.9    2015 MEASURED MEDIA SPENDING BY MEDIUM (BILLIONS)
Measured Media

2015 Spending

Broadcast TV

$27.4

Percentage of Total
22.3%

Cable TV

27.8

22.6

Spot TV

15.8

12.9

5.0

4.1

13.9

11.3

7.2

5.9

20.6

16.8

5.1

4.2

Syndicated TV
Newspapers
Radio
Magazines
Outdoor
Total

$122.8

100%

Source: 2017 Marketing Fact Pack, December 19, 2016. Advertising Age.

with regard to a product, service, organization, or idea.
Most major brands use advertising not only to drive
sales but also to build their reputation, especially with
a broad target market. Television (network broadcasts
and cable combined) remains the number-one advertising medium, with magazines and newspapers following.
As mass media prices increase and audiences fragment,
fringe media are roaring toward the mainstream. But
measurement is tough, since alternative media tactics
are buried in other categories, including magazines, outdoor, and Internet. The overall media spending patterns
for 2010 are shown in Exhibit 12.9.
Each type of media offers advantages and drawbacks, as
summarized in Exhibit 12.10. Your goal as a marketer should
be to determine which media options reach your target market efficiently and effectively, within the limits of your budget.

Sales Promotion Sales promotion stimulates
immediate sales activity through specific short-term
programs aimed at either
consumers or distributors.
sales promotion Marketing
Traditionally, sales promoactivities designed to stimulate
tion has been subordinate
immediate sales activity through
to other promotional tools,
specific short-term programs
aimed at either consumers or
but spending has accelerdistributors.
ated in the past decade.
Sales promotion falls into
consumer promotion
Marketing activities designed to
two categories: consumer
generate immediate consumer
and trade.
sales, using tools such as
premiums, promotional products,
samples, coupons, rebates, and
displays.

228

Consumer promotion is designed to generate
immediate sales. Consumer
promotion tools include

premiums, promotional products, samples, coupons, rebates, and displays.
■■

Premiums are items that consumers receive free of
charge—or for a lower than normal cost—in return for
making a purchase. Upscale cosmetics companies use
the gift-with-purchase approach on a regular basis.
Successful premiums create a sense of ­urgency—“Buy
me now!”—while building the value of the brand.

■■

Promotional products are also essentially gifts to
consumers of merchandise that advertises a brand
name. Or pizza delivery places give away refrigerator
magnets with their logo and phone number. Promotional products work best when the merchandise
relates to the brand and it’s so useful or fun that consumers will opt to keep it around.

■■

Samples reduce the risk of purchasing something new
by allowing consumers to try a product before committing their cash. From 2009 to 2011, Muscle Milk hired
hundreds of personal trainers to conduct promotions
and distribute samples. Sampling also drives immediate
purchases. At one time or another, most of us have probably bought food we didn’t need after tasting a delicious
morsel in the supermarket aisle. Costco and Trader Joe’s
do especially well with this angle on sampling.

■■

Coupons offer immediate price reductions to
consumers. Instant coupons require even less effort, since they are attached to the package right
there in the store. The goal is to entice consumers
to try new products. But the downside is huge.
Marketers who depend on coupons encourage
consumers to focus on price rather than value,

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

EXHIBIT 12.10    MAJOR MEDIA CATEGORIES
Major Media

Advantages

Disadvantages

Broadcast TV Mass audience: Top-rated shows garnered more than
20 million viewers in 2013.

High impact: TV lends itself to vivid, complex messages
that use sight, sound, and motion.

Disappearing viewers: The 100 million viewers for the top-rated
show in 2012 was dwarfed by the 1983 record of 105 million viewers
for the finale of M*A*S*H.
Jaded viewers: Consumers who aren’t zapping ads with their DVR are
prone to simply tuning them out.
High cost: A 30-second ad during Super Bowl 2013 cost a record
$4 million, and a typical primetime ad cost $200,000 to $400,000,
­depending on the show.

Cable TV

Targeted programming: Cable helps advertisers target
highly specialized markets (Zhong Tian Channel, anyone?).
Efficient: The cost per contact is relatively low, especially for
local buys.

DVRs: As with broadcast TV, many viewers simply aren’t watching ads.
Uneven quality: Many cable ads are worse than mediocre, providing
a seedy setting for quality products.

High impact: Cable offers the same sight, sound, and
motion benefits as broadcast.

Newspapers

Localized: Advertisers can tailor their messages to meet
local needs.
Flexible: Turnaround time for placing and p­ ulling ads is
very short.

Short life span: Readers quickly discard their papers.
Clutter: It takes two or three hours to read the average metro paper
from cover to cover. Almost no one does it.
Quality: Even top-notch color newsprint leaves a lot to be desired.

Consumer acceptance: Readers expect, and even seek,
newspaper ads.

Direct Mail

Highly targeted: Direct mail can reach very specific markets.
International opportunity: Less jaded foreign customers
respond well to direct mail.
Email option: Opt-in email can lower direct mail costs.

Wasted resources: Direct mail uses a staggering amount of paper.
And most recipients don’t even read it before they toss it.
High cost: Cost per contact can be high, although advertisers can
limit the size of the campaign.
Spam: Unsolicited email ads have undermined consumer tolerance
for all email ads.

Radio

Highly targeted: In L.A., for example, the dial ranges from
Vietnamese talk radio to urban dance music, each station
with dramatically different listeners.

Low impact: Radio relies only on listening.
Jaded listeners: Many of us flip stations when the ads begin.

Low cost: Advertisers can control the cost by limiting the
size of the buy.
Very flexible: Changing the message is quick and easy.

Magazines

Highly targeted: From Cosmopolitan to ­Computerworld,
magazines reach very ­specialized markets.

High cost: A full-page, four-color ad in People can cost more
than $300,000.

Quality: Glossy print sends a high-quality ­message.

Inflexible: Advertisers must submit artwork months before
publication.

Long life: Magazines tend to stick around homes and offices.

Outdoor

High visibility: Billboards and building sides are hard to miss.
Repeat exposure: Popular locations garner daily viewers.

Simplistic messages: Anything more than an image and a few words
will get lost.

Breakthrough ideas: Innovative approaches include cars and Visual pollution: Many consumers object to outdoor ads.
Limited targeting: It’s hard to ensure that the right people
buses “wrapped” in ads, video billboards, and blimps.
see your ad.

Internet

24/7 global coverage: Offers a remarkable level of exposure.
Highly targeted: Search engines are especially strong at
delivering the right ad to the right person at the right time.
Interactive: Internet ads can empower ­consumers.

Intrusive: The annoyance factor from tough-to-close pop-ups
alienates consumers, infuriating many.
Limited readership: Web surfers simply ignore the vast majority
of ads.

CHAPTER 12: Product and Promotion: Creating and Communicating Value
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

229

products often give prefabricated
display materials to grocery stores and
mass merchandisers to encourage
promotion.

Pio3/Shutterstock.com

Trade promotion is designed to
stimulate wholesalers and retailers to
push specific products more aggressively. Special deals and allowances are
the most common form of trade promotion, especially for consumer products.
The idea is that if you give your distributors a temporary price cut, they will pass
the savings on to consumers via a shortterm “special.”
Trade shows are another popular
Companies and stores work together to create a positive
form of trade promotion. Usually orgamessage through store displays.
nized by industry trade associations,
trade shows give exhibitors a chance to
display and promote their products to
which makes it harder to differentiate brands and
their distributors. They typically attract hundreds of exhibibuild loyalty. In categories with frequent coupons
tors and thousands of attendees. Trade shows are espe(such as soap and cereal), too many consumers
cially common in rapidly changing industries such as toys
wait for the coupon in order to buy. They end up
and consumer electronics. Every year the Consumer Elecgetting great deals, but marketers pay the price in
tronics Association hosts “the world’s largest annual trade
reduced profits.
show for consumer electronics!” in Las Vegas.
Other forms of trade promotion include contests,
■■ Rebates, common in the car industry and the
sweepstakes,
and special events for distributors. A soda
electronics business, entice consumers with cashcompany might sponsor a contest to see which grocery
back offers. This is a powerful tactic for higher-priced
store can build the most creative summer display for its
items, since rebates offer an appealing purchase
soda brands. Or a cable TV programmer might take a
motivator. And rebates provide an incentive for
group of system managers to Key West to “learn more
marketers as well: breakage. Most people who buy a
about their programming” (really an excuse for a great
product because of the rebate don’t actually follow
party that makes the system managers more open to the
through and do the paperwork to get the money
programmer’s pitch).
(some estimates suggest that breakage rates are as
high as 90% to 95%). This means that marketers can
offer hefty discounts
without actually coughtrade promotion Marketing
ing up the cash, so it
activities designed to stimulate
isn’t surprising that
wholesalers and retailers to
rebates are a popular
push specific products more
promotional tool!
aggressively over the short term.
■

D
isplays generate purpublic relations (PR) The
chases in-store. Most
ongoing effort to create positive
relationships with all of a firm’s
experts agree that condifferent “publics,” including
sumers make a hefty
customers, employees, suppliers,
chunk of their purchase
the community, the general public,
decisions as they shop,
and the government.
which means that dispublicity Unpaid stories in the
plays can play a crucial
media that influence perceptions
role in sales success.
about a company or its products.
Marketers of consumer

230

Public Relations In the broadest sense, p
­ublic
relations (or PR) involves the ongoing effort to create
positive relationships with all of a firm’s different “publics,”
including customers, employees, suppliers, the community, the general public, and the government. But in a more
focused sense, PR aims to generate positive ­publicity, or
unpaid stories in the media that create a favorable impression about a company or its products. The endgame, of
course, is to boost demand.
For the most part, the media cover companies or
products that they perceive as newsworthy. To get coverage, smart firms continually scan their own companies
for potential news—a hot product or a major corporate
achievement—and present that news to the media. But
finding news on a regular basis can be tough. To fill the
gaps, innovative PR people sometimes simply create
“news.” PR guru Bill Stoller offers some interesting ideas

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

In a massive, brand-breaking, environmentally damaging scandal,
Volkswagen (VW) admitted in 2015 that it fit millions of cars with
devices to mask the amount of pollutants that they spewed into the
environment. In other words, VW knowingly cheated on standardized
emissions tests so its cars would appear road-ready when they
were anything but. Not surprisingly, this sizable scandal carried a
sizable price for VW. Within a month of the cheating coming to light,
Volkswagen sales plummeted 225%. What’s more, the EPA levied fines
against VW of up to $37,500 per car—more than the cost of each car
affected—amounting to a total penalty of up to $18 billion. It’s hard to
imagine how the Volkswagen brand will recover, but it may take even
longer for overall trust in automobile environmental claims to recover. 30

Carsten Reisinger/Shutterstock.com

Cheaters Never Prosper

for how to invent stories that will
grab media attention:

customers from a growing tide of
solicitors in front of its stores, Tar“More than 85 percent
get banned Salvation Army bell
■■ Launch a Hall of Fame:
of customers have a
ringers in front of all its stores in
Induct some luminaries from
negative
view
of
all
2004. The press cried foul, focusyour industry, create a simple
ing not on the service to consumsalespeople.”
website, and send your press
ers, but rather on the disrespect to
release to the media. Repeat
—BILL BROOKS,
a venerable charity. Target’s archrieach year, building your repuTHE BROOKS GROUP
val Walmart, spotting an opportutation along the way.
nity for itself at Target’s expense,
■■ Make a List: The best, the
announced that it would match customer donations to
worst, the top ten, the ­bottom ten—the media loves
the Salvation Army at all of its locations.
lists, and the possible topics are endless! Just make
sure that your list is ­relevant to your business.
Personal Selling Personal selling—the world’s
■■ Create a Petition: The Web makes this tactic
oldest form of promotion—is person-to-person presentaeasy. Harness a growing trend or identify a need in
tion of products to potential buyers. But successful selling
your industry, and launch your petition. The more
typically begins long before the actual presentation and
signatures you get, the better your chances for
ends long afterward. In today’s competitive environment,
publicity.31
selling means building relationships on a long-term basis.
The biggest advantage of publicity is that it is usuCreating and maintaining a quality sales force is exally credible. Think about it: Are you more likely to buy a
pensive. Experts estimate that each business-to-business
product featured on the news or a product featured in
sales call costs nearly $400. So why are so many people
a 30-second ad? Are you more likely to read a book reemployed in sales?32 Because nothing works better than
viewed by the New York Times or featured on a billboard?
personal selling for high-ticket items, complex products,
Publicity is credible because most people believe that
and high-volume customers. In some companies, the sales
information presented by the media is based on legititeam works directly with customers; in other firms, the
mate opinions and facts rather than on the drive to make
sales force works with distributors who buy large volumes
money. And it also helps that publicity is close to free
of products for resale.
(excluding any fees for a PR firm).
Salespeople fall along
personal selling The
But publicity has a major downside: the marketer
a spectrum that ranges
person-to-person presentation of
has no control over how the media present the comfrom order takers who simproducts to potential buyers.
pany or its products. For example, in an effort to protect
ply process sales to order
CHAPTER 12: Product and Promotion: Creating and Communicating Value
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

231

seekers who use creative selling to persuade customers.
Most department stores hire order takers who stand behind the counter and ring up sales. But Nordstrom hires
creative order seekers who actively garner sales by offering
extra services such as tasteful accessory recommendations
for a clothing shopper.
A separate category of salespeople focuses on missionary selling, which means promoting goodwill for a
company by providing information and assistance to customers. The pharmaceutical industry hires a small army of
missionary salespeople who call on doctors to explain and
promote its products, even though the actual sales move
through pharmacies.
The sales process typically follows six key stages. Keep
in mind that well before the process begins, effective salespeople seek a complete understanding of their products,
their industry, and their competition. A high level of knowledge permeates the entire selling process.
1. Prospect and Qualify: Prospecting means
­identifying potential customers. Qualifying means
choosing those who are most likely to buy your
product. Choosing the right prospects makes salespeople more efficient, since it helps them focus their
limited time in areas that will yield results. Companies
find prospects in a number of different ways, from
trade shows to direct mail, to cold calling. In a retail
­environment, everyone who walks in the door is a
prospect, so salespeople either ask questions or look
for visual cues to qualify customers.
2. Prepare: Before making a sales call, research is
critical, especially in a business-to-business environment. What are your prospect’s wants and needs?
What are his or her current product lines? Who are
the key competitors? What are the biggest internal
and external challenges? How much time is your
prospect willing to give you? The answers to these
questions will help you customize your presentation
for maximum ­effectiveness.
3. Present: You’ve probably heard that you don’t get a
second chance to make a good first impression, and
that’s especially true in sales. With so many options
and so little time, buyers often look for reasons to
eliminate choices; a weak first impression provides
an easy reason to eliminate you. Your presentation
itself should match the features of your product to
the benefits that your customer seeks (a chance to
use all that preparation). Testimonials, letters of praise
from satisfied current customers, can push forward
the sale by reducing risk for your prospect. A demonstration can be the clincher. When test-driving cars,

232

a demonstration is a no-brainer. But in other categories, technology can help demonstrate products that
are too big to move.
4. Handle Objections: The key to success here is to
view objections as opportunities rather than criticism. Objections give you a chance to learn more
about the needs of your prospects and to elaborate
on the benefits of your product. You should definitely anticipate as many objections as possible and
prepare responses. One response may be connecting prospects with others in your company who can
better handle their concerns. This approach offers the
additional benefit of deepening ties between your
prospect and your company.
5. Close Sale: Closing the sale—or asking the prospect
to buy—is at the heart of the selling process. The
close should flow naturally from the prior steps, but
often it doesn’t—sealing the deal can be surprisingly
tough. One approach may be a trial close: “Would
you like the 15-inch screen or the 17-inch screen?”
If your prospect is still reluctant to buy, you may
want to offer another alternative or a special financial incentive. Even if the prospect doesn’t actually
make the purchase, remember that he or she may be
willing in the future, so keep the door open.
6. Follow-up: The sales process doesn’t end when
the customer pays. The quality of service and support plays a crucial role in future sales from the same
customer, and getting those sales is much easier than
finding brand-new prospects. Great relationships with
current customers also lead to testimonials and referrals that build momentum for long-term sales success.
Two personal selling trends are gathering momentum in a number of organizations: consultative selling
and team selling. Consultative selling involves shifting the
focus from the products to the customers. On a day-today basis, the practice involves a deep understanding of
customer needs. Through lots and lots of active listening, consultative salespeople offer practical solutions to
customer problems—solutions that use their products.
While consultative selling generates powerful customer
loyalty, it involves a significant—and expensive—time
investment from the sales force.
Team selling tends to be especially effective for large,
complex accounts. The approach includes a group of
specialists from key functional areas of the company—
not just sales but also engineering, finance, customer service, and others. The goal is to uncover opportunities and
respond to needs that would be beyond the capacity of
a single salesperson. In these situations, a key part of the

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

salesperson’s role is to connect and coordinate the right
network of contacts.

the final consumers, usually through heavy trade
promotion and personal selling. A pull strategy
involves creating demand from your final consumers so that they “pull” your products through the
distribution channels. Many successful brands use a
combination of push and pull strategies to achieve
their goals. P&G recently launched a consumer
marketing campaign for Crest toothpaste featuring
an “Irresistibility IQ” quiz for club-goers, but it also
promotes heavily to dentists, hoping that those
dentists will recommend Crest to their patients.

12-6c Choosing the Right Promotional Mix:

Not Just a Science

There are no fail-safe rules for choosing the right combination
of promotional tools. The mix varies dramatically among various industries but also within specific industry segments. The
best approach may simply be to consider the following questions in developing the mix that works best for your products.
■ Product Characteristics: How can you best com-

municate the features of your product? Is it simple or
complex? Is it high priced or inexpensive? A specialized, high-priced item, for example, might require an
investment in personal selling, whereas a simple, lowcost product might lend itself to billboard ­advertising.
■■

Product Life Cycle: Where does your product stand
in its life cycle? Are you developing awareness? Are
you generating desire? What about driving purchases?
And building loyalty? The answers will clearly affect
your promotional focus. For instance, if you’re developing awareness, you might focus more on advertising,
but if you’re aiming to drive immediate sales, you’ll
probably emphasize sales promotion.

■■

Target Audience: How big is your target audience?
Where do they live and work? A small target audience—
especially if it’s geographically dispersed—would lend
itself to personal selling or direct mail. A sizable target
audience might suggest advertising as an effective way
to reach large numbers. Audience expectations should
also play a role in your promotional mix decisions.

■■

Push versus Pull: Does your industry emphasize
push or pull strategies? A push strategy involves
motivating distributors to “push” your product to

■■

Competitive Environment: How are your key competitors handling their promotional strategies? Would
it make more sense for you to follow their lead or to
forge your own promotional path? If all your competitors offer coupons, for instance, your customers may
expect you to offer them as well. Or if the environment is cluttered, you might want to focus on emerging promotional approaches such as advergaming.

■■

Budget: What are your promotional goals? How
much money will it take to achieve them? (Answering this question is
tough, but it’s clearly
push strategy A marketing
important.) How much
approach that involves
motivating distributors to heavily
are your competitors
promote—or “push”—a product
spending in each area
to the final consumers, usually
of the mix? And how
through heavy trade promotion
much money do you
and personal selling.
have for promotion?
pull strategy A marketing
Even though available
approach that involves creating
budget shouldn’t drive
demand from the ultimate
consumers so that they “pull”
the promotional mix,
your products through the
it plays a crucial role,
distribution channels by actively
especially for smaller
seeking them.
businesses.

THE BIG PICTURE
The possibilities in both product development
and promotional strategy have rapidly multiplied in the past few years alone. But companies can’t deliver
on the potential without well-oiled teamwork throughout the
organization. For instance, the operations group must focus
on quality, the accounting group must focus on cost, and the
finance group must focus on funding—but from a big-picture

standpoint, all groups must work toward the same overarching
goal: maximizing customer value. Promotion also requires
coordination within the organization and among the outside
suppliers who provide promotional services. Finally, the best
ideas for both product and promotion can come from any
department. Marketers who stay ahead of the curve will only
sharpen their competitive edge in the decade to come.

CHAPTER 12: Product and Promotion: Creating and Communicating Value
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

233

CAREERS IN PRODUCT AND PROMOTION
Pharmaceutical Sales
Representative
Build effective long-term business relationships with
healthcare providers. Develop and deliver sales presentations to healthcare professionals. Distribute product
information and samples in order to encourage more

STUDY TOOLS

prescriptions and recommendations. Answer questions
from healthcare professionals in a timely manner. Keep
current about clinical data, competitive offerings, and
healthcare organizations, issues, and events, particularly
in area of specialty. Organize group events for healthcare
­professionals. Create and maintain detailed records of all
­contacts and meetings.

12

LOCATED AT BACK OF THE TEXTBOOK
■■

Rip-Out Chapter Review Card

■■

Gain unique perspectives on key concepts with new concept
videos in the e-book
Increase your comprehension with online homework and
quizzes

■■

234

■■

Study with existing flashcards and make your own

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

13

Distribution and Pricing:
Right Product, Right Person,
Right Place, Right Price

LEARNING OBJECTIVES
After studying this chapter, you will be able to:

Remember to visit

PAGE 251

13-2 Describe the various types of wholesale distributors
13-3 Discuss strategies and trends in store and nonstore retailing

for additional

13-4 Explain the key factors in physical distribution

STUDY TOOLS

13-5 Outline core pricing objectives and strategies
13-6 Discuss pricing in practice, including the role of consumer perceptions

13-1

DISTRIBUTION: GETTING YOUR PRODUCT TO YOUR CUSTOMER

Next time you go to the grocery store, look around—the average
U.S. supermarket carries about 50,000 different products.1 Is your
favorite brand of soda part of the mix? Why? How did it get from
the factory to your neighborhood store? Where
distribution strategy A
else could you find that soda? How far would you
plan for delivering the right
product to the right person
be willing to go to get it? These are marketing
at the right place at the
right time.
distribution questions that contribute directly
channel of distribution
to the distribution strategy: getting the right
The network of organizations and
processes that links producers to
product to the right person at the right place at
consumers.
the right time.
physical distribution The
actual, physical movement of
products along the distribution
pathway.

direct channel A distribution
process that links the producer
and the customer with no
intermediaries.

236

The distribution strategy
has two elements: channels
of distribution and physical
distribution. A channel
of distribution is the
path that a product takes

from the producer to the consumer, while physical
distribution is the actual movement of products along
that path. Some producers choose to sell their products
directly to their customers through a direct channel.
No one stands between the producer and the customer.
Examples range from Dell computers to local farmers

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Rawpixel.com/Shutterstock.com

13-1 Define distribution and differentiate between channels of distribution and physical distribution

markets, to factory outlet stores. But most producers use
channel intermediaries to help their products move
more efficiently and effectively from their factories to their
consumers. Hershey’s, for example, sells chocolate bars to
Sam’s Club—a channel i­ntermediary—which may, in turn,
sell them to you.
13-1a The Role of Distributors:

Adding Value

You might be asking yourself why we need distributors.
Wouldn’t it be a lot less expensive to buy directly from
the producers? The answer, surprisingly, is no. Distributors add value—additional benefits—to products. They
charge for adding that value, but typically they charge
less than it would cost for consumers or producers to add
that value on their own. When distributors add to the cost
of a product without providing comparable benefits, the
intermediaries don’t stay in business. Fifteen years ago, for
instance, most people bought plane tickets from travel
agents. But when the Internet reduced the cost and inconvenience of buying tickets directly from airlines, thousands
of travel agencies lost their customers.
One core role of distributors is to reduce the number of
transactions—and the associated costs—for goods to flow

“We now live in an age of surreal
abundance.”
—JONAH LEHRER,
AUTHOR

from producers to consumers. As you’ll see in Exhibit 13.1,
even one marketing intermediary in the distribution channel can funnel goods from producers to consumers, with far
fewer costly transactions.
Distributors add value, or utility, in a number of different ways: form, time, place, ownership, information, and
service. Sometimes the distributors deliver the value (rather
than adding it themselves), but often they add new utility
that wouldn’t otherwise be present. As you read through
the various types of utility, keep in mind that they are often
interrelated, building on each other to maximize value.
Form utility provides
customer satisfaction by
channel intermediaries
converting inputs into finished products. Clearly,
form utility is primarily
a part of manufacturing. Pepsico, for instance,

Distribution organizations that
facilitate the movement of
products from the producer to
the consumer.

CHAPTER 13: Distribution and Pricing: Right Product, Right Person, Right Place, Right Price
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

237

It’s a Bird … It’s a Plane … It’s Superman … Wait,
No—It’s a Drone!

▪▪ After your first drone arrives, five others will arrive bearing
items we think you might also like.
▪▪ Want to show someone how much you hate them? Send me
to their house with a Nickelback CD. #DroneRevenge
But not everyone was laughing—least of all the federal government. Although Amazon has tested its airborne delivery bots in
Canada, the U.K., and the Netherlands, it cannot launch in the
United States until the Federal Aviation Administration issues

provides form utility by transforming water, chemicals,
and aluminum into cans of soda. But retailers can add
form utility as well. McDonald’s, for instance, converts
syrup, bubbly water, and paper into cups of soda.
Time utility adds value by making products available at a convenient time for consumers. In our 24/7 society,
consumers feel entitled to instant gratification, a benefit
that distributors can provide more easily than most producers. Consider one-hour dry cleaning, or vending machines
at your school. These distributors provide options for filling
your needs at a time that works for you.
Place utility satisfies customer needs by providing the
right products in the right place. Gas stations and fast food,
for instance, often cluster conveniently at the bottom of
freeway ramps. ATMs—essentially electronic distributors—
are readily available in locations that range from grocery
stores to college cafeterias.
Ownership utility adds value by making it easier for
customers to actually possess the goods and services that
they purchase. Providing credit, cashing checks, delivering goods, and installing products are all examples of
how distributors make it easier for customers to own their
products.

238

chrisjohnsson/Shutterstock.com

▪▪ I see you have guests. You may also be interested in curtains.

official commercial drone regulations. Until that happens, the
FAA must approve each Amazon drone flight, and every drone
must remain within its operator’s line of site for the entire duration of the flight. With these restrictions in place, the Amazon
Prime Air delivery project can’t really get off the ground—so
to speak. To increase the likelihood that the FAA’s regulations
will favor its operations, Amazon has begun dumping hundreds
of thousands of dollars into political lobbying. Amazon is now
Washington’s fastest-growing tech lobby, pushing not only for
delivery drone approval but also for larger trucks, more road
improvements, and a closer partnership with
the United States Postal Service. It may
be quite some time before
your next Amazon order
floats down onto your
porch from above, but if
Amazon gets its
way, drone
delivery will
one day be
more than
just pie in
the sky.2
gualtiero boffi/Shutterstock.com

In 2013, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos made a media splash by
announcing that the online giant is developing Amazon Prime
Air, 30 minute deliveries via drone-like “octocopters.” He
cautioned that the service would not be in action until 2015 at
the very earliest. The plan was for the drones to initially carry
items up to five pounds, which is roughly 86% of all deliveries
Amazon makes. Initial reaction from the public was mixed.
Much of the public was concerned about safety and theft. Would
people be shooting drones from the sky? And what about
privacy? Others seemed to find the whole concept downright
hilarious. The jokes almost instantly rippled across Twitter, which
almost inevitably spawned parody accounts. A sampling of
Tweets from the fictional Octobot to the Twitterverse:

Although Nintendo typically uses cargo
ships to move products from Japan
to the United States, the video game
manufacturer changed its distribution
method to airplane—to the tune of $45
per unit—to meet unexpectedly high
demand for its new Switch console.

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

from wholesalers can be retailers, other wholesalers, or business users. To complicate this fairly
simple concept, some distributors act as both
wholesalers and retailers. Costco, for example,
sells directly to businesses and to consumers.

Exhibit 13.1

Reducing Transactions through Marketing
Intermediaries
Manufacturer

Manufacturer

Manufacture r

13-2

Manufacturer

Customer

Customer

Custome r

Customer

Manufacturer

Manufacturer

Manufacture r

Manufacturer

Some wholesalers are owned by producers,
while others are owned by retailers, but the vast
­majority—accounting for about two-thirds of
all the wholesale trade—are independent
wholesaling businesses. These companies
represent a number of different producers, distributing their goods to a range of customers.
Independent wholesalers fall into two categories: (1) merchant wholesalers, who take
legal possession, or title, of the goods they distribute, and (2) agents/brokers, who don’t
take title of the goods.

Marketing Intermediary

Customer

Customer

Custome r

Customer

Information utility boosts customer satisfaction by
providing helpful information. Zappos.com, for instance,
hires customer service experts to guide its customers
through its website to the perfect pair of shoes. Similarly,
most skateboard stores hire skater salespeople who gladly
help customers find the best board for them.
Service utility adds value by providing fast, friendly,
personalized service. Examples include placing a special
order for that part you need to customize your computer,
or choosing just the right gift in your local clothing boutique. Distributors that provide service utility typically create a loyal base of customers.

13-2a Merchant Wholesalers
Merchant wholesalers comprise about 80% of
all wholesalers. By taking legal title to the goods
they distribute, merchant
wholesalers reduce the risk
retailers Distributors that
sell products directly to the
of producers’ products beultimate users, typically in small
ing damaged or stolen—or
quantities, that are stored and
even that they just won’t
merchandized on the premises.
sell. Taking title also allows
wholesalers Distributors that
merchant wholesalers to debuy products from producers and
velop their own marketing
sell them to other businesses or
nonfinal users such as hospitals,
strategies, including pricing.
■■

The Members of the Channel: Retailers versus
Wholesalers Many producers sell their goods through
multiple channels of distribution. Some channels have
many members, while others have only a few. The main
distinction among channel members is whether they are
retailers or wholesalers. Retailers are the distributors that
most of us know and use on a daily basis. They sell products
directly to final consumers. Examples include 7-Eleven markets, Starbucks, and Urban Outfitters. Wholesalers, on the
other hand, buy products from the producer and sell them
to businesses (or other nonfinal users, such as hospitals,
nonprofits, and the government). The businesses that buy

W HOLESALERS: SORTING
OUT THE OPTIONS

■■

Full-service merchant
wholesalers provide
a complete array of
services to the retailers or business users
who typically purchase
their goods. This
includes ­warehousing,
shipping, promotional
assistance, product
repairs, and credit.
Limited-service
merchant wholesalers
provide fewer services
to their customers. For

nonprofits, and the government.

independent wholesaling
businesses Independent
distributors that buy products
from a range of different
businesses and sell those products
to a range of different customers.

merchant wholesalers
Independent distributors who
take legal possession, or title, of
the goods they distribute.

agents/brokers
Independent distributors who do
not take title of the goods they
distribute (even though they may
take physical possession on a
temporary basis before distribution).

CHAPTER 13: Distribution and Pricing: Right Product, Right Person, Right Place, Right Price
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

239

■■

■■

■■

13-2b

Drop Shippers: Drop shippers take legal title of the
merchandise, but they never physically process
it. They simply organize and facilitate product
shipments directly from the producer to their
customers. Drop shippers are common in industries with bulky products, such as coal or timber.
Amazon, however, successfully pioneered the use
of drop shipping in e-commerce, where it has
become a standard shipping method for a number
of major websites.
Cash and Carry Wholesalers: These distributors
service customers who are too small to merit inperson sales calls from wholesaler reps. Customers
must make the trip to the wholesaler themselves
and cart their own products back to their stores.
Costco and Staples are both examples.
Truck Jobbers: Typically working with perishable
goods such as bread, truck jobbers drive their
products to their customers, who are usually
smaller grocery stores. Their responsibilities often
include checking the stock, suggesting reorder
quantities, and removing out-of-date goods.

Agents and Brokers

Agents and brokers connect buyers and sellers and facilitate transactions in exchange for commissions. But they
do not take legal ownership of the goods they distribute.
Many insurance companies, for instance, distribute via
agents, while brokers often handle real estate and seasonal
products such as fruits and vegetables.

Radu Bercan/Shutterstock.com

example, some might warehouse products, but not
deliver them. Others might warehouse and deliver, but
not provide credit or marketing assistance. The specific
categories of limited-service merchant wholesalers
include the following:

Shopping malls allow customers to visit
several store retailers under one roof—but
their days may be numbered in the wake
of a dramatic retail restructuring.
value, than their counterparts. Low prices are only part of
the equation. Other elements clearly include customer service, product selection, advertising, and location. The look
and feel of the retailer—whether online or on-ground—is
another critical element.
Retailing falls into two main categories: store and
nonstore. But as we discuss each type, keep in mind
that the lines between them are not always clear. In fact,
multichannel retailing—or encouraging consumers
to buy through different venues—is an emerging phenomenon. Some marketers have sold their products through
multiple channels for many years. For example, on any
given day, you could purchase a Coke from a grocery store,
a restaurant, or a vending machine. But the emergence
of the Internet has provided a host of new opportunities
for firms that hadn’t previously considered a multichannel
approach. An active relationship between on-ground and
online outlets has become pivotal for many retailers.
13-3a

13-3

R ETAILERS: THE

CONSUMER CONNECTION

Retailers represent the last stop on the distribution path, since
they sell goods and services directly to final consumers. Given
their tight consumer connection, retailers must keep in especially close touch with rapidly
changing consumer needs
multichannel retailing
and wants.
Providing multiple distribution
Smart retailers gain a
channels for consumers to buy
competitive
edge by proa product.
viding more utility, or added

240

Store Retailers

While other retail channels are growing, traditional stores
remain the 800-pound gorilla of the retail industry, accounting for well over 90% of total retail. Stores range in
size from tiny mom-and-pop groceries to multi-acre superstores dwarfed only by their parking lots. Exhibit 13.2
highlights examples of different store types.
In early 2017, the retail industry began a period of dramatic restructuring. Brick-and-mortar stores began closing at
a record pace while online shopping continued to grow explosively. But online shopping wasn’t the only force at work.
Some analysts also blamed the bursting of a retail bubble,
similar to the housing bubble, for the sharp and sudden decline in retail. According to these analysts, the retail bubble

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

EXHIBIT 13.2 RETAIL STORE CATEGORIES
Store Type

Store Description

Examples

Category Killer

Dominates its category by offering a huge variety of
one type of product.

OfficeMax, Best Buy, Staples, PetSmart, Toys R Us, Big 5
Sporting Goods

Convenience Store Sells a small range of everyday and impulse products at easy-to-

7-Eleven, AM/PM markets, Circle K, and a wide range
of local stores

Department Store

Offers a wide variety of merchandise (e.g., clothes, furniture,
cosmetics), plus (usually) a high level of service.

Nordstrom, Macy’s, Neiman Marcus

Discount Store

Offers a wide array of merchandise at significantly lower prices and
with less service than most department stores.

Target, Walmart, Kmart

Outlet Store

Producer-owned store sells directly to the public at a huge discount.
May include discontinued, flawed, or overrun items.

Nike, Versace, Quicksilver, Calvin Klein, Converse, GUESS

Specialty Store

Sells a wide selection of merchandise within a narrow category,
such as auto parts.

Barnes & Noble, Victoria’s Secret, Claire’s, AutoZone,
Lenscrafters, Bath & Body Works

Supermarket

Offers a wide range of food products, plus limited ­nonfood items
(e.g., toilet paper).

Kroger, Safeway, Albertson’s, Whole Foods, Trader Joe’s

Supercenter

Sells a complete selection of food and general merchandise at a
steep discount in a single enormous location.

Walmart Supercenters, Super Target

Warehouse Club

Sells discounted food and general merchandise to club members in
a large warehouse format.

Costco, Sam’s Club

access locations with long hours and quick checkout.

began to inflate three decades ago,
goods that consumers won’t travel too
with thousands of new retail locafar to find. Marketers have chosen this
In 2014, the average
tions opening and rental prices soarstrategy for Snickers candy bars, Dial
U.S. supermarket
ing. As retailers overbuilt, an influx of
soap, and Sports Illustrated magazine,
carried more than
fast fashion and low-priced chains
among thousands of other items.
arose, leading to a brutally competi42,000 different
Selective Distribution Selective retail landscape. The confluence
items.
tive distribution means placing your
of all these forces led to the recent
—FOOD MARKETING
products only with preferred retailretail shakeout. According to finanINSTITUTE
ers (or establishing your stores only
cial services company Credit Suisse,
in limited locations). This approach
the pace of retail closures in the first
tends to work best for medium- and
three months of 2017 suggested that
higher-priced products or stores that consumers don’t exmore retailers would close in 2017 than during the Great Repect to find on every street corner. Marketers have chosen
cession in 2008. It certainly doesn’t help that mall traffic is
this strategy for Neiman Marcus, Jones Soda, and most
down since consumers no longer view most malls as enterbrands of paintball equipment, for instance.
tainment destinations.3
Both retailers and the producers who distribute
Exclusive Distribution Exclusive distribution means
through them must carefully consider their distribution
establishing only one retail outlet in a given area.
strategy. The three key strategic options are intensive, seTypically, that one retailer has exclusive distribution rights
lective, and ­exclusive.
and provides exceptional service and selection. This stratIntensive Distribution Inten­sive distribution invol­ves
egy tends to work for luxury-goods providers with a cusplacing your products in as many stores as possible (or plactomer base that actively seeks their products. Examples
ing your stores themselves in as many locations as possible).
include top-end cars such as Tesla and fashion trendsetters
This strategy makes the most sense for low-cost convenience
such as Raf Simons.
CHAPTER 13: Distribution and Pricing: Right Product, Right Person, Right Place, Right Price
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

241

Kraska/Shutterstock.com

to $4.058 trillion by 2020, making
The wheel of retailing offers
up 14.6% of total retail spending
another key strategic consideration.
“Leaders win through
that year. Analysts also predict that
The wheel is a classic theory that
logistics. Vision, sure.
North American e-commerce sales
suggests retail firms—sometimes
Strategy,
yes.
But
will see consistent double-digit
even entire retail categories—
growth through 2020, fueled by
become more upscale as they go
when you go to war,
increased spending from existing
through their life cycles. For inyou need to have
digital buyers, expansion into new
stance, it’s easiest to enter a busiboth
toilet
paper
and
categories such as grocery, and
ness on a shoestring, gaining
growing m-commerce (mobile
bullets at the right
customers by offering low prices.
commerce) sales.4 Much of the
But eventually businesses trade
place at the right
growth will come at the expense
up their selection, service, and fatime.
In
other
words,
of on-ground retail, as consumers
cilities to maintain and build their
shift more and more of their puryou must win through
customer base. Higher prices then
chases to online channels. The
follow, creating vulnerability to new,
superior logistics.”
bigger name brands—including
lower-priced competitors. And thus
—T OM PE T E RS, BUSINE S S
online-only brands, such as Amathe wheel keeps rolling.
WRITER
zon, and on-ground brands with a
Although the wheel of retailing
strong web presence, such as Best
theory does describe many basic
Buy—seem
poised
to
benefit most, since cautious conretail patterns, it doesn’t account for stores that launch at
sumers
are
most
familiar
with them.5
the high end of the market (e.g., Whole Foods) and those
Online retailers, like their on-ground counterparts,
that retain their niche as deep discounters (e.g., Dollar Genhave
learned that great customer service can be a poweral or Taco Bell). But the wheel theory does underscore the
erful
differentiator.
Simply “getting eyeballs” isn’t enough,
core principle that retailers must meet changing consumer
since—depending
on the industry—fewer than 5% of
needs in a relentlessly competitive environment.
the people visiting a typical website convert into paying
customers. Optimizing one’s conversion rate through ex13-3b Nonstore Retailers
cellent online customer service can dramatically increase
both sales and profitability. One way of improving online
While most retail dollars flow through brick-and-mortar
service is by using a live chat greeting. You have likely enstores, a growing number of sales go through other
countered a box that pops up a few minutes after you’ve
channels, or nonstore retailers. The key players represent
been browsing a retail website with a prompt asking if an
online retailing, direct-response retailing, direct selling,
agent can help you find what you need. Research suggests
and vending.
that visitors invited to chat are 6.3 times more likely to convert into customers than ones
Online Retailing Also known as “e-tailing,” online rewho aren’t. What’s more, 61% of
tailing grew at the astonishing rate of nearly 25% per
those customers convert within
year for most of the early 2000s. But the
torrid pace began to slow in 2008 with
the first chat! For higher-value
the onset of the recession. Online reproducts and services that entail
tailing grew only 1.6% in 2009, but
greater levels of commitment,
growth bounced back to over 12% in
the conversation might start via
2011. Looking forward, experts at
chat and then move to a click-toeMarketer predict that worldwide recall channel when the visitor’s intertail e-commerce sales will increase
est in the product is confirmed. However,
in the online environment—as in any business
environment—a customer service agent’s knowledge,
wheel of retailing A
training, and skills make all the difference between
classic distribution theory that
a satisfied customer and a dissatisfied one. Online
suggests that retail firms and retail
retailers who invest in top-tier customer service in
categories become more upscale
chat and beyond position themselves to achieve
as they go through their life cycles.
breakthrough success.6

242

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Despite the advantages, online retailers face two major hurdles. The first is that products must be delivered,
and even the fastest delivery services typically take at least
a couple of days. But the truly daunting hurdle is the lack
of security on the Web. As online retailers and software
developers create increasingly secure systems, hackers develop more sophisticated tools to crack their new codes.

Direct Response Retailing This category includes
catalogs, telemarketing, and advertising (such as infomercials) meant to elicit direct consumer sales. Even though
Victoria’s Secret significantly cut back on its catalog circulation in 2016—including killing off the company’s worldfamous swimwear catalog—the catalog side of Victoria’s
Secret continues to thrive. According to Direct Marketing
Association, 53% of consumers purchase from a catalog
at least once a year, and 17% purchase monthly or more
often.7 Telemarketing, both inbound and outbound, also
remains a potent distribution channel, despite the popular National Do Not Call list established in 2003.

Direct Selling This channel includes all methods of
selling directly to customers in their homes or workplaces.
Door-to-door sales has enjoyed a resurgence in the wake of
the National Do Not Call list, but the real strength of direct
selling lies in multilevel marketing, or MLM. Multilevel
marketing involves hiring independent contractors to sell
products to their personal network of friends and colleagues
and to recruit new salespeople in return for a percentage of
their commissions. Mary Kay Cosmetics and The Pampered
Chef have both enjoyed enormous success in this arena,
along with pioneering companies such as Tupperware.
Vending Until about a decade ago, vending machines in
the United States sold mostly soft drinks and snacks. But
more recently, the selection has expanded (and the
machines have gone more upscale) as marketers recognize
the value of providing their products as conveniently as possible to their target consumers. The Maine Lobster Game, for
example, allows customers to catch their own fresh lobster
dinner with a metal claw in restaurants and bars. But other
countries are far ahead of the United States in the vending
arena. In Japan, for instance, people buy everything from
blue jeans to beef from vending machines. In China, a vending machine at a main subway station in Nanjing sells an
average of 200 live hairy crabs every day. And vending machines in Puerto Rico dispense free tubes of Colgate along
with candy bars, plus an LED message that says “Don’t forget
to brush.”8 As technology continues to roll forward, U.S. consumers are likely to see a growing number of vending machines for products as diverse as “fresh-baked” pizza, digital
cameras, and specialty coffee drinks.

13-4

PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION: PLANES,

TRAINS, AND MUCH, MUCH MORE

Determining the best distribution channels for your product is only the first half of your distribution strategy. The
second half is the physical distribution strategy: determining how your product will flow through the channel from
the producer to the consumer.
The supply chain for a product includes not
only its distribution channels but also the string of
suppliers who deliver products to the producers. (See
Exhibit 13.3.) Planning and coordinating the movement
of products along the supply chain—from the raw materials to the final consumers—is called supply chain
management or SCM. Logistics is a subset of SCM
that focuses more on tactics (the actual movement of
products) than on strategy.
At one time, relationships among the members of the
supply chain were contentious. But these days, companies
that foster collaboration, rather than competition, have typically experienced more success. Vendor-managed inventory
is an emerging strategy—pioneered by Walmart—that allows
suppliers to determine buyer needs and automatically ship
product. This strategy saves time and money but also requires
an extraordinary level of trust and information-sharing among
members of the supply chain.
In our turbocharged
24/7 society, supply chain
multilevel marketing
management has become
(MLM) Involves hiring
increasingly complex. Gap,
independent contractors to sell
for instance, contracts with
products to their personal network
more than 3,000 factories
of friends and colleagues and to
recruit new salespeople in return for
in more than 50 different
a percentage of their commissions.
countries, and distributes
its products to about 3,000
supply chain All
organizations, processes, and
stores in eight different
activities involved in the flow of
countries. The coordination
goods from the raw materials to
requirements are mind-­
the final consumer.
boggling. Key management
supply chain
decisions include the folmanagement (SCM)
lowing ­considerations:
Planning and coordinating the
■■

■■

Warehousing: How
many warehouses do we
need? Where should we
locate our warehouses?
Materials Handling:
How should we move
products within our

movement of products along
the supply chain, from the raw
materials to the final consumers.

logistics A subset of supply
chain management that focuses
largely on the tactics involved
in moving products along the
supply chain.

CHAPTER 13: Distribution and Pricing: Right Product, Right Person, Right Place, Right Price
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

243

■  Transportation: How can we move products

Exhibit 13.3

most efficiently through the supply chain? What
are the key tradeoffs?

Elements of the Supply Chain

■  Security:

The supply chain highlights the links among the various
­organizations in the production and distribution process.

How can we keep products safe
from vandals, theft, and accidents every step of
the way?

Raw Materials

And fragile or perishable products require
even more considerations.

Logistics (transportation, coordination, etc.)

13-4a Transportation Decisions

Warehouse/Storage
Production
Warehouse/Storage
Logistics (transportation, coordination, etc.)
Distributors—Marketing and Sales

facilities? How can we best balance efficiency with
effectiveness?
■■

Inventory Control: How much inventory should we
keep on hand? How should we store and distribute it?
What about costs such as taxes and insurance?

■■

Order Processing: How should we manage incoming and outgoing orders? What would be most efficient
for our customers and suppliers?

■■

Customer Service: How can we serve our customers
most effectively? How can we reduce waiting times
and facilitate interactions?

EXHIBIT 13.4
Mode

Moving products through the supply chain is so
important that it deserves its own section. The
various options—trains, planes, and railroads, for
instance—are called modes of transportation. To make smart decisions, marketers must
consider what each mode offers in terms of cost,
speed, dependability, flexibility, availability, and
frequency of shipments. The right choice depends
on the needs of the business and on the product
itself. See Exhibit 13.4 for a description of the transportation options.
Depending on factors such as warehousing,
docking facilities, and accessibility, many distributors use several different modes of transportation.
If you owned a clothing boutique in Las Vegas, for example,
chances are that much of your merchandise would travel by
boat from China to Long Beach, California, and then by truck
from Long Beach to Las Vegas.
13-4b Proactive Supply Chain Management
A growing number of marketers have turned to supply
chain management to build a competitive edge through
greater efficiency. But given the complexity of the field,
many firms choose to outsource this challenge to experts rather than handling it internally. Companies that

MODES OF TRANSPORTATION

Percentage of U.S.
Volume Based on
2007 Ton-Miles

Cost

Speed

On-Time
Flexibility in Frequency of
Dependability Handling
Shipments

Availability

Rail

39.5%

Medium

Slow

Medium

Medium

Low

Extensive

Truck

28.6%

High

Fast

High

Medium

High

Most extensive

Ship

12.0%

Lowest

Slowest

Lowest

Highest

Lowest

Limited

Plane

0.3%

Highest

Fastest

Medium

Low

Medium

Medium

Low

Slow

Highest

Lowest

Highest

Most limited

Pipeline

19.6%

Source: Table 1-46b: U.S. Ton-Miles of Freight (BTS Special Tabulation), 2007 data, Bureau of Transportation website, http://www.bts.gov/publications/national_transportation_statistics/html/table_01_46b.html,
accessed September 5, 2017.

244

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

specialize in helping other companies manage the supply chain—such as UPS—have done particularly well in
today’s market.

13-5

13-5a

Since long-term profitability is a fundamental goal of
most businesses, profitability targets are often the starting point for pricing strategies. Many firms express these
goals in terms of either return on investment (ROI) or return on sales (ROS). Keep in mind that profitability is the
positive difference between revenue (or total sales) and
costs. Firms can boost profits by increasing prices or decreasing costs, since either strategy will lead to a greater
spread between the two. Doing both is tricky, but companies that succeed—such as Apple—typically dominate
their markets.

P RICING OBJECTIVES
AND STRATEGIES:
A HIGH-STAKES GAME

Pricing strategy clearly has a significant impact on the
success of any organization. Price plays a key role in determining demand for your products, which directly influences a company’s profitability. Most people, after all,
have a limited amount of money and a practically infinite
number of ways they could spend it. Price affects their
spending choices at a more fundamental level than most
other variables.
But ironically, price is perhaps the toughest variable
for marketers to control. Both legal constraints and marketing intermediaries (distributors) play roles in determining the final price of most products. Marketers must
also consider costs, competitors, investors, taxes, and
product strategies.
In today’s frenetic environment, stable pricing is
no longer the norm. Smart marketers continually evaluate and refine their pricing strategies to ensure that
they meet their goals. Even the goals themselves may
shift in response to the changing market. Common
objectives and strategies include building profitability, boosting volume, matching the competition, and
creating prestige.

13-5b

Boosting Volume

Companies usually express volume goals in terms of
market share—the percentage of a market controlled
by a company or a product. Amazon.com, for example,
launched with volume objectives. Its goal was to capture
as many “eyeballs” as possible, in hopes of later achieving
profitability through programs that depend on volume,
such as advertising on its site. A volume objective usually
leads to one of the following strategies.

Rawpixel.com/Shutterstock.com

Many firms express long-term
profitability goals in terms of either
return on investment or return on sales.

Building Profitability

Penetration Pricing Penetration pricing, a strategy for pricing new products, aims to capture as much of
the market as possible through rock-bottom prices. Each
individual sale typically yields a tiny profit; the real money
comes from the sheer volume of sales. One key benefit
of this strategy is that it tends to discourage competitors,
who may be scared off by the slim margins. But penetration pricing makes sense only in categories that don’t have
a significant group of consumers who would be willing to
pay a premium (otherwise, the marketer would be leaving
money on the table). For obvious reasons, companies that
use penetration pricing are
usually focused on controlmodes of transportation
ling costs. JetBlue is a key
The various transportation
example. Its prices are often
options—such as planes, trains,
unbeatable, but it strictly
and railroads—for moving
controls costs by using a
products through the supply
chain.
single kind of jet, optimizing turnaround times at the
penetration pricing
gate, and using many nonA new product pricing strategy
that aims to capture as much of
major airports.
Everyday-Low Pricing
Also known as “sustained discount pricing,” everydaylow pricing (EDLP) aims
to achieve long-term profitability through volume.

the market as possible through
rock-bottom prices.

everyday-low pricing
(EDLP) Long-term discount
pricing, designed to achieve
profitability through high sales
volume.

CHAPTER 13: Distribution and Pricing: Right Product, Right Person, Right Place, Right Price
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

245

So What’s the Trick to Getting College Students
to Eat Healthier?
The answer may be in the pricing. A recent study at Belgium
University found that increasing the price of meals sold with
French fries significantly reduced the sale of fries, while offering
discounts for choosing fruit for dessert increased fruit sales.

campuses where students do more of their eating from vending
machines, the lessons from this study could be applied quickly
and effectively.9

pathdoc/Shutterstock.com

Before the experiment, more than half of students (53%) chose
meals with French fries. During the experiment, the price of meals
with French fries was raised 10% one week and 20% the next if
students chose French fries instead of rice or mashed potatoes
with lunch meals. About 42% of students chose French fries when
the cost was 10% higher, and 31% chose them when the cost was
20% higher. A second experiment offered meals with fruit instead
of pastries for dessert. Before the experiment, 37% of students
chose meals with fruit. During the experiment, the price of meals
with fruit was discounted 10% one week and 20% the next.
About 62% of students chose fruit when it was discounted 10%,
and about 79% chose fruit when the discount grew to 20%.
Interestingly, reducing the price of a healthy food had a
greater impact on students’ behavior than increasing the price
of an unhealthy food. No gender differences were found. On

Walmart is clearly the king of EDLP with “Always low prices.
Always!” But Costco uses the same strategy to attract a
more-upscale audience. The difference between the two
customer groups quickly becomes apparent by glancing
at the cars, while strolling through the two parking lots.
Costco customers are typically seeking everyday discounts
because they want to, not because they need to. The product mix—eclectic and upscale—reflects the customer
base. (Costco sells discounted fine wine, low-priced rotisserie chickens, fresh king crab legs, and high-end electronics.) While Costco posted years of healthy, sustained
growth, the firm ran into trouble at the end of 2008. As the
recession tightened its grip, sales began to soften, especially in non-food categories, suggesting that EDLP
high/low pricing A pricing
may be most effective for
strategy designed to drive traffic
less-upscale products.10 By
to retail stores by special sales on
2010, Costco had recovered
a limited number of products, and
and returned to its historical
higher everyday prices on others.
growth trajectory.
loss-leader pricing Closely
related to high/low pricing,
High/Low Pricing The
loss-leader pricing means pricing
high/low pricing strata handful of items—or loss
egy
tries to increase traffic
leaders—temporarily below cost
in retail stores by special
to drive traffic.
sales on a limited number

246

of products, and higher everyday prices on others. Often
used—and overused—in grocery stores, drug stores, and
department stores, this strategy can alienate customers who feel cheated when a product they bought for
full price goes on sale soon afterward. High/low pricing
can also train consumers to buy only when products are
on sale.

Loss-Leader Pricing Closely related to high/low
pricing, loss-leader pricing means pricing a handful of items—or loss leaders—temporarily below cost to
drive traffic. The retailer loses money on the loss leaders
but aims to make up the difference (and then some) on
other purchases. To encourage other purchases, retailers

“If automobiles had followed the
same development cycle as the
computer, a Rolls-Royce would
today cost $100, get a million miles
per gallon, and explode once a
year, killing everyone inside.”
— R O B E R T C R I N G E LY, T E C H N O L O G Y J O U R N A L I S T

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Is Price Gouging Illegal? Is Price Gouging Immoral?
Can Price Gouging Be a Good Thing?
Nobody loves the business that doubles the price of bottled
water right after a hurricane or the individual who overcharges
for generators in the wake of an earthquake. To discourage
both businesses and individuals from raising prices after an
emergency, many states have passed anti-price gouging laws.
These laws are quite popular among consumers, but according
to economists, they may exacerbate the supply problems that
cause inconvenience—and even suffering—after natural
disasters. For example, anti–price gouging laws tend to
encourage hoarding. People at the front of the line may buy

more cases of water than they actually need, leaving nothing
for those at the back of the line. Anti–price gouging laws also
remove the incentive for both businesses and individuals to
replenish supply. Why go to the extra effort or incur the extra
risks of bringing in extra inventory if you can’t charge more to
get extra profits? Nevertheless, most states do have anti–price
gouging laws due to their overwhelming popularity with voters.
If the price-gouging retailer finds himself at the wrong end of a
natural disaster, he might end up being thankful for such laws
as well.11

typically place loss leaders at the back of the store, forcing customers to navigate past a tempting array of more
profitable items. The loss-leader strategy has been used effectively by producers, as well. Gillette, for instance, gives
away some shavers practically for free but reaps handsome
profits as consumers buy replacement blades. Similarly,
Microsoft has sold its Xbox systems at a loss to increase
potential profits from high-margin video games. But the
loss-leader strategy can’t be used everywhere, since a
number of states have made loss leaders illegal for anticompetitive reasons.12

involves offering new products at a premium price. The idea
is to entice price-insensitive consumers—music fanatics,
for example—to buy high when a product first enters the
market. Once these customers have made their purchases,
marketers will often introduce lower-priced versions of the
same product to capture the bottom of the market. Apple
used this strategy with its iPod, introducing its premium
version for a hefty price tag. Once it had secured the big
spenders, Apple introduced the lower-priced iPod Nanos
and Shuffles with a powerful market response. But keep in
mind that skimming works only when a product is tough
to copy in terms of design, brand image, technology, or
some other attribute. Otherwise, the fat margins will attract a host of competitors.

13-5c Matching the Competition
The key goal is to set prices based on what everyone else
is doing. Usually, the idea is to wipe out price as a point
of comparison, forcing customers to choose their product based on other factors. Examples include Coke and
Pepsi, Honda and Toyota, Chevron and Mobil, and Delta
and United. But sometimes one or two competitors
emerge that drive pricing for entire industries. Marlboro,
for instance, leads the pack in terms of cigarette pricing,
with other brands falling into place behind.
13-5d

Creating Prestige

The core goal is to use price to send consumers a message
about the high quality and exclusivity of a product—the
higher the price, the better the product. Of course, this
strategy works only if the product actually delivers top
quality; otherwise, nobody would buy more than once
(and those who do so would clearly spread the word).
Rolex watches, Mont Blanc pens, and Bentley cars all use
prestige pricing to reinforce their image.

Skimming Pricing This new product pricing strategy is a subset of prestige pricing. Skimming pricing

13-6

P RICING IN PRACTICE:
A REAL-WORLD APPROACH

At this point, you may be wondering about economic
theory. How do concepts such as supply and demand and
price elasticity affect pricing decisions?
Even though most marketers are familiar with economics, they often don’t have the information they
need to apply the theories to their specific pricing strategies. Collecting data for supply and demand curves is
expensive and time consuming, which may be unrealistic for rapidly changing
markets. From a real-world
skimming pricing A new
standpoint, most marketers
product pricing strategy that
consider
market-based
aims to maximize profitability
factors—especially customer
by offering new products at a
expectations and competipremium price.
tive prices—but they rely

CHAPTER 13: Distribution and Pricing: Right Product, Right Person, Right Place, Right Price
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

247

Does Your Privacy Matter to You
as Much as Cheap Prices?
they’re checking anything anyway—I might as well get a
good deal out of it.”13

on cost-based pricing. The key question is: What price
levels will allow me to cover my costs and achieve my
objectives?

Here’s how the breakeven analysis would work for our
nacho business:

13-6a

Breakeven Analysis

Breakeven analysis is a relatively simple process that
determines the number of units a firm must sell to cover
all costs. Sales above the breakeven point will generate a
profit; sales below the breakeven point will lead to a loss.
The actual equation looks like this:
Breakeven Point (BP) 5

Total fixed costs (FC)
Price/unit (p) 2 Variable costs/unit (VC)

If you were selling customized nachos, for example, your fixed costs might be $400,000 per year. Fixed
costs stay the same regardless of how many servings of
nachos you sell. Specific fixed costs might include the
mortgage, equipment payments, advertising, insurance,
and taxes. Suppose your variable cost per serving—the
cost of the ingredients and the cost of wages for the
cook—were $5 per serving. If your customers would pay
$12 per serving, you could use the breakeven equation
to determine how many servings of nachos you’d need
to sell in a year so that
your total sales were equal
breakeven analysis
to your total expenses.
The process of determining the
Remember: a company
number of units a firm must sell to
that is breaking even is not
cover all costs.
making a profit.

248

Maria Savenko/Shutterstock.com

Years ago, anyone willing to scour coupons, search for
deals, and shop often could make use of the lowest prices
at the grocery store. But those days are disappearing as
quickly as your Internet privacy. A number of large grocers
are now implementing personalized pricing programs
that create unique offers and prices tailored to shoppers’
individual behaviors and needs, ultimately bumping up the
grocers’ profit margins. Soon, such personalized pricing
programs might well displace standardized price tags. For
example, a shopper who has a history of purchasing alcohol
and barbecue sauces may receive a coupon designed to
encourage him or her to purchase a brand-new high margin
Kentucky bourbon sauce. Some customized coupons are
offered on-the-spot via mobile apps that are loaded with
customer data, while others are sent in the mail. According
to shopper Ainy Kazmi, “It’s a little bit creepy, but I figure

BP 5

FC
$400,000 $400,000
5
5
5 57,143 Servings Nachos
P 2 VC $12 2 $5
$7

Over a one-year horizon, 57,143 servings of customized nachos would translate to about 157 servings
per day. Is that reasonable? Could you do better? If
so, start thinking of some creative names! If not,
you have several choices, each with its own set of
considerations:
■■

Raise Prices: How much do other snack-like meals
in your neighborhood cost? Are your nachos better in
some way? Would potential customers be willing to
pay more?

■■

Decrease Variable Costs: Could you use less expensive ingredients? Is it possible to hire less expensive help? How would these changes affect quality
and sales?

■ Decrease Fixed Costs:

Should you choose a different location? Can you lease cheaper equipment?
Would it make sense to advertise less often? How
would these changes affect your business?

Clearly, there isn’t one best strategy, but a breakeven
analysis helps marketers get a sense of where they stand
and the hurdles they need to clear before actually introducing a product.

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Pricing Sleight of Hand

▪▪ E stablish a high reference point: Research suggests that most
consumers need a reference point to determine whether a
given price is reasonable. For instance, the iPhone cost $599
when it first launched, which helps make an iPhone today at
$199 seem like a bargain.
▪▪ O
 bscure the reference point: Apple products look so unique
that it’s impossible to compare them accurately to anything
else on the market. Similarly, candy and other treats in
movie theaters are tough to accurately price-compare to
goodies at other outlets, because they tend to come in
unusual, large boxes that are shaped nothing like what you
see at other stores.

13-6b Fixed Margin Pricing
Many firms determine upfront how much money they need
to make for each item they sell. The profit margin—
which is the gap between the cost and the price on a per-­
product basis—can be expressed as a dollar amount but
more often is expressed as a percent. There are two key
ways to determine margins.

▪▪ H
 ide price components in bundles: Not just Apple, but most
electronic devices, count on downstream data fees over the
course of a contract to supplement the cost of the device itself.
For instance, computer printers are relatively cheap,
but manufacturers rely on anticipated sales
from proprietary ink cartridges. Ink revenue
adds up quickly—especially
over the full life of a printer.
Each of these strategies is legally
sound, but they may be a
bit ethically shaky. Being
aware is a crucial part of
being a smart consumer.
And making pricing information transparent is part of
being an ethical marketer.14

Ljupco Smokovski/Shutterstock.com

As a consumer, does it ever seem to you as though marketers
use magic to separate you from your money? As a marketer, it
may be helpful to know some pricing tricks that marketers use
to maximize revenue. Here are some examples, used especially
well by Apple:

method is more market-focused than cost-based
pricing, but it’s also more risky, since profits depend
on achieving those target costs. A number of Japanese companies, such as Sony, have been very successful with this approach, achieving extraordinarily
efficient production.

13-6c Consumer Pricing Perceptions:
1. Cost-Based Pricing: The most popular method
The Strategic Wild Card
of establishing a fixed margin starts with determinYou just don’t know if you’ve found the right price
ing the actual cost of each product. The process is
until you figure out how consumers perceive it.
more complex than it may initially seem, since fixed
And those perceptions can sometimes defy the
costs must be allocated on a per-product basis, and
straightforward logic of dollars and cents. Two key
some variable costs fluctuate dramatically on a daily
considerations are price–quality relationships and
or weekly basis. But once the per-product cost is
odd pricing.
set, the next step is to layer the margin on the cost
The link between price and perceived quality can
to determine the price. Costco, for instance, has a
be powerful. Picture yourself walking into a local sportstrict policy that no branded item can be marked
ing goods store, looking for a new snowboard. They have
up by more than 14%, and no private-label item by
several models of your favorite brand, most priced at
more than 15%. Supermarkets, on the other hand,
around $450. But then you
often markup merchandise by 25%,
notice another option—
and department stores by 50% or more.
There are two kinds
same brand, same style—
Margins in other industries can be
marked down to $79.
much thinner.15
of fools in any market.
Would you buy it? If you
2. Demand-Based Pricing: This apOne doesn’t charge
proach begins by determining what
price consumers would be willing
to pay. With that as a starting point,
marketers subtract their desired margin,
which yields their target costs. This

enough. The other
charges too much.
—RUSSIAN PROVERB

profit margin The gap
between the cost and the price of
an item on a per-product basis.

CHAPTER 13: Distribution and Pricing: Right Product, Right Person, Right Place, Right Price
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

249

Olivier Le Moal/Shutterstock.com

were like most consumers, you’d probably assume that
something was wrong with a board that cheap. Would
you be right? It’s hard to know. Sometimes the relationship between price and quality is clear and direct, but
that is not always the case. Regardless, consumers will
use price as an indicator of quality unless they have additional information to guide their decision. Savvy marketers factor this tendency into their pricing strategies.
Marketers also must weigh the pros and cons of
odd pricing, or ending prices in numbers below even
dollars and cents. A micro stereo system at Target, for
instance, might cost $99.99 instead of an even $100.
Gasoline uses odd pricing to 99/100ths of a cent. But
wouldn’t round numbers be easier? Does that extra
penny really make a difference? While the research is
inconclusive, many marketers believe that jumping up
to the “next” round number sends a message that prices
have hit a whole new level. In other words, they believe
that the perceived gap between $99.99 and $100.00 is
much greater than the actual gap of 0.0001%. And it
certainly makes sense from an intuitive standpoint.
Odd prices have also come to signal a bargain, which
is often—but not always—a benefit for the marketer.
For instance, a big-screen
TV for $999.99 might seem
odd pricing The practice of
like a great deal, while
ending prices in numbers below
knee surgery for $4,999.99
even dollars and cents in order to
sounds kind of scary—
create a perception of greater value.
you’d probably rather that

Many marketers use odd pricing because
the perceived gap between $1.00 and
$0.99 is much greater than the actual gap
between these two prices.

your doctor charge $5,000. Likewise, a fast-food joint
might charge $3.99 for its value meal, while fine restaurants almost always end their prices in zeros. Marketers can determine whether odd pricing would work for
them by evaluating the strategy in light of the messages
it sends to the target market.

THE BIG PICTURE
Distribution and pricing are two fundamental
elements of the marketing mix. In today’s
frenzied global economy, marketers are seeking a competitive
edge through distribution management. Creating a profitable
presence in multiple retail venues requires constant focus
throughout the organization. And managing the supply
chain—how products move along the path from raw materials
to the final consumer—plays a crucial role in controlling costs
and providing great customer service. Integrating effective
technology during the entire process can separate the winners
from the losers.

250

Pricing objectives and strategies are also pivotal since they
directly impact both profitability and product image. As the
market changes, successful companies continually reevaluate
and modify their approach, working hand in hand with their
accountants.
Looking ahead, a growing number of companies will
probably move toward collaboration, rather than competition, as they manage their supply chains. And pricing
will likely become even more dynamic in response to the
changing market.

PART FOUR: Marketing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

CAREERS IN DISTRIBUTION AND PRICING
Warehouse Manager
Oversee the safe receipt, storage, retrieval, and timely
transmission of goods. Oversee computerized inventory
management system. Comply with federal, state, and local
laws regarding warehousing, material handling, and shipping.
Plan the ­arrangement of goods within the warehouse, and

STUDY TOOLS

handle requirements for specialized stock (e.g., chilled
goods or fragile products). Keep current with all relevant
legislation and ­industry trends. Ensure security in all aspects
of warehouse ­operation. Maintain physical condition of
warehouse. ­Create and track warehousing budget to
meet financial ­objectives. Hire, manage, and motivate
warehouse staff.

13

LOCATED AT BACK OF THE TEXTBOOK
■■

Rip-Out Chapter Review Card

■■

Gain unique perspectives on key concepts with new concept
videos in the e-book
Increase your comprehension with online homework and
quizzes

■■

■■

Study with existing flashcards and make your own

CHAPTER 13: Distribution and Pricing: Right Product, Right Person, Right Place, Right Price
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

251

Management, Motivation,
and Leadership:

14

Bringing Business to Life

LEARNING OBJECTIVES
14-1 Discuss the role of management and its importance to organizational success

Remember to visit

PAGE 269

14-2 Explain key theories and current practices of motivation
14-3 Outline the categories of business planning and explain strategic planning

for additional

14-4 Discuss the organizing function of management

STUDY TOOLS

14-5 Explain the role of managerial leadership and the key leadership styles
14-6 Describe the management control process

14-1

BRINGING RESOURCES TO LIFE

To grow and thrive, every business needs resources—­money, technology,
materials—and an economic system that helps enterprise flourish.
But those resources, or ­factors of production, are nothing without
management to bring them to life. Managers provide
management Achieving the
­vision and direction for their organizations, they decide
goals of an organization through
planning, organizing, leading, and
how to use resources to achieve goals, and they inspire
controlling organizational resources
including people, money, and time.
others—both inside and outside their companies—
planning Determining
to follow their lead. By formal definition, managers
organizational goals and action
plans for how to achieve those goals.
achieve the goals of an organization through planning,
organizing Determining a
structure for both individual jobs
organizing, leading, and ­controlling organizational
and the overall organization.
­resources, including people, money, and time.
leading Directing and

motivating people to achieve
organizational goals.

controlling Monitoring
performance and making
adjustments as needed.

252

In simple terms, planning
means figuring out where
to go and how to get
there. Organizing means

determining a structure for both individual jobs and
the overall organization. Leading means directing
and motivating people to achieve organizational goals.
And controlling means monitoring performance and

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Monkey Business Images/Shutterstock

After studying this chapter, you will be able to:

making adjustments as needed. In today’s chaotic, hypercompetitive business environment, managers face daunting challenges. But for the right people, management
positions can provide an exhilarating—though sometimes
exhausting—career.
As the business pace accelerates and the environment continues to morph—especially in the wake of economic turmoil—the role of management is also radically
transforming. The successful manager has changed from
boss to coach, from disciplinarian to motivator, from dictator to team builder. But the bottom-line goal remains the
same: to create value for the organization.

“If you can get those two things
right—having a clear direction
on what you are trying to do
and bringing in great people
who can execute on the stuff—
then you can do pretty well.”
—MARK ZUCKERBERG, FOUNDER
AND CEO, FACEBOOK

■■

14-1a Management Hierarchy: Levels

of Responsibility

Most medium-sized and large companies have three basic levels of management: top management, middle
­management, and first-line (or supervisory)
management. The levels typically fall into a pyramid of
sorts, with a small number of top managers and a larger
number of ­
supervisory managers. Responsibilities shift
as managers move up the hierarchy, and the skills that
they use must shift accordingly. Here are the differences
between three key levels:

■■

Top management
sets the overall direction of the firm. Top
managers must articulate a vision, establish
priorities, and allocate
time, money, and other
­resources. Typical titles
include chief executive
officer (CEO), president,
and vice president.
Middle management
manages the managers. (Say that three

top management
Managers who set the overall
direction of the firm, articulating
a vision, establishing priorities,
and allocating time, money, and
other resources.

middle management
Managers who supervise lowerlevel managers and report to a
higher-level manager.

first-line (supervisory)
management Managers
who directly supervise
nonmanagement employees.

CHAPTER 14: Management, Motivation, and Leadership: Bringing Business to Life
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

253

Starting Early and Staying Strong

▪▪ Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook founder: Before he went
to college, Mark was recruited to work for Microsoft
and AOL. As a toddler, he found a screwdriver and
dismantled his crib when he thought he was too old for
a “baby bed.”
▪▪ Palmer Luckey, 23-year-old founder of Oculus Rift: Luckey
experimented with building coil guns in his parents’ garage
when he was a teenager. “Looking back,” he says, “it’s
honestly a miracle I am not dead.”
▪▪ Oprah Winfrey, media mogul: Winfrey (pictured) began
working at the corner grocery store next to her father’s
barber shop, and she “hated every minute of it.” Winfrey
wasn’t allowed to talk to the customers, which she understandably found “very, very, very hard.”
▪▪ J eff Bezos, Amazon founder: As a teenager, Jeff built
amateur robots and an assortment of other electronic
inventions.

times!) Middle managers must communicate up
and down the pyramid, and their primary contribution often involves coordinating teams and special
­projects with their peers from other departments.
Typical titles include director, division head, and
branch manager.
First-line (supervisory) management manages
the people who do the work. First-line managers
must train, motivate, and evaluate nonmanagement
employees, so they are heavily involved in day-to-day
production issues.
Typical titles include
technical skills Expertise
supervisor, foreman,
in a specific functional area or
and section leader.
department.
■

human skills The ability
to work effectively with and
through other people in a range of
different relationships.

conceptual skills The
ability to grasp a big-picture view
of the overall organization, the
relationships among its various
parts, and its fit in the broader
competitive environment.

254

Smaller
companies
usually don’t have a hierarchy of management. Often
the owner must act as the
top-, middle-, and first-line
manager, all rolled into
one. This clearly requires
enormous flexibility and
well-developed management skills.

▪▪ W
 arren Buffett, founder of Berkshire Hathaway and one of
the richest people in the world, began delivering papers
on his bicycle at the age of 13. By the time he finished high
school in 1947, Buffett had earned $5,000, which is the
equivalent of $54,000 today.
▪▪ R
 ichard Branson, Virgin Group CEO: Branson attributes at
least some of his motivation to his mom: When he was six,
she would shove him out of the car and tell him to find his
own way home.
▪▪ C
 hris Rock, comedian: Chris’ first job was at Red Lobster. “The
thing about Red Lobster is that if you work there, you can’t
afford to eat there,” he once told Jay Leno. “You’re making
minimum wage. A shrimp costs minimum wage.”
But keep in mind that some
high achievers don’t gear up
until well after childhood. True
motivation requires clear goals,
which people can develop at
any point in their lives. When
meaningful goals merge with
energy and determination,
anything becomes possible.1

Krista Kennell/Shutterstock.com

Some people seem compelled to succeed no matter what . . .
and those are the folks who tend to drive the economy. A quick
survey of some well-known super-achievers suggests that a high
level of motivation was part of their personalities from the very
beginning:

14-1b Management Skills: Having What

It Takes to Get the Job Done

Given the turbulence of today’s business world, managers
must draw on a staggering range of skills to do their jobs
­efficiently and effectively. Most of these abilities cluster
into three broad categories: technical skills, human skills,
and conceptual skills.
■■

■■

■■

Technical Skills: Technical skills refer to expertise
in a specific functional area or department. Keep in mind
that technical skills don’t necessarily relate to technology.
People can have technical skills—or specific expertise—
in virtually any field, from sales, to copywriting, to accounting, to airplane repair, to ­computer programming.
Human Skills: Human skills refer to the ability
to work with and through other people in a range of
different relationships. Human skills include communication, leadership, coaching, empathy, and team
building. A manager with strong human skills can
typically mobilize support for initiatives and find win–
win solutions for conflicts.
Conceptual Skills: Conceptual skills refer to
the ability to grasp a big-picture view of the overall
organization and the relationship between its

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

various parts. Conceptual skills also help managers
understand how their company fits into the broader
competitive environment. Managers with strong
conceptual skills typically excel at strategic planning.
All three categories of skill are essential for management
success. But their importance varies according to the level of
the manager. Front-line managers must have a high degree
of technical skills, which help them hire, train, and evaluate
employees; avoid mistakes; and ensure high-quality production. Middle-level managers need an especially high level of
human skills. They typically act as the bridge between departments, coordinating people and projects that sometimes
have mismatched priorities. Top-level managers must demonstrate excellent conceptual skills in order to formulate a vision, interpret marketplace trends, and plan for the future. To
move up in an organization, managers must constantly learn
and grow, nurturing skills that reflect their new tasks.
Across all three skill sets, critical thinking and decisionmaking abilities have become increasingly important. Critical
thinking helps managers find value even in an overload of

information. Part of how information overload plays out is in
email management; according to Fortune magazine, the average knowledge worker now spends an astounding 28% of her
work time managing email. Simply deleting unwanted emails
could take more than 16 hours per year! Strong decision-making
skills help managers respond wisely and rapidly to all this information, with an unwavering focus on customer satisfaction.
Managers who expect to grow in the company hierarchy must expect to foster new skills. Too often, workers
get promotions because of great technical skills—for example, the top salesperson lands the sales manager slot—
but they struggle to move further because they don’t fully
develop their human and conceptual skills.

14-2

MOTIVATION: LIGHTING THE FIRE

Standout managers motivate others to reach for their best
selves—to accomplish more than they ever thought possible.
Motivated workers tend to feel great about their jobs, and

O O P S! W H AT W E R E T H E Y T H I N K I N G ?
Bad Decisions, Big Impacts
Every day, managers around the globe make highstakes decisions, from expanding overseas, to introducing new products, to closing factories. The great decisions
have become the stuff of legends, shaping the business world as
we know it today. Bad choices also abound. Consider these five
business decisions that made history for their silliness:
■■

■■

■■

Faced with the opportunity to buy rights to the telephone in
1876, Western Union, the telegraph behemoth, rejected the
newfangled device: “This ‘telephone’ has too many shortcomings to be seriously considered as a means of communication. The device is inherently of no value to us.”

■■

■■

■■

In 1899, two young attorneys approached Asa Candler—
owner of the briskly selling new fountain drink Coca-Cola—
with an innovative proposal to bottle the beverage. Chandler
sold them exclusive rights to bottle Coke across most of the
United States for the grand sum of $1. Oops.
In 1977, the executives at 20th Century Fox exhibited overconfidence in their deal-making abilities, and far too little confidence in director George Lucas’s filmmaking and business
savvy. In exchange for a paltry $20,000 pay cut, they signed
over to Lucas all product merchandising rights for the current
and all future Star Wars films. The combined revenue from
merchandising is estimated to have exceeded $3 billion, and
continues to grow annually, making it the most lucrative deal
ever struck between an individual and a corporate studio in
entertainment history. Seemed like a good idea at the time . . . .

■■

In 1999, fledgling search engine Excite rejected an offer to
buy Google because it considered the $1 million asking price
to be too high. Google is now worth nearly $300 billion, and
Excite is defunct.
In 2016, Mylan pharmaceuticals raised the price of the
EpiPen, a life-saving drug delivery system, from $57 to more
than $500. After the news broke, Mylan’s stock price dropped
from almost $58 a share to around $38 per share—a loss
of more than 34%—suggesting that sometimes increased
profits just aren’t worth as much as they may seem.
Also in 2016, Samsung twice had to halt production and
undergo a massive and expensive recall of its Galaxy Note 7
phone, which had the inconvenient and potentially deadly
problem of heating up and catching fire. The cost of the
recall may ultimately exceed $17 billion, which is potentially
more than the phone would’ve attracted in the first place.
Clearly, taking a product to market without thoroughly
testing it first is not always worth the potential costs.
Mike Smith, one of the executives in charge of evaluating
new talent for the London office of Decca Records, rejected
the Beatles in 1962 with the now infamous line: “Groups are
out; four-piece groups with guitars particularly are finished.”
Not so much….

With the help of hindsight, momentous decisions may seem
almost inevitable. But these bloopers clearly show that in the
fog of the moment, the right choice can be anything but clear.2

CHAPTER 14: Management, Motivation, and Leadership: Bringing Business to Life
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

255

EXHIBIT 14.1 MASLOW’S HIERARCHY OF NEEDS AND THE WORKPLACE
Maslow’s Need

Description

Workplace Examples

Self-Actualization

Need for fulfillment—the need to
­realize one’s fullest potential

Challenging, creative jobs; meaningful work that ties to a
greater good; volunteer opportunities

Safety

Need to feel secure—free of harm and free
of fear

Safety equipment, healthcare plans, life ­insurance,
retirement plans, job security, gym membership

Social (Belonging)

Need to feel connected to others—­
accepted by family and friends

Teamwork, positive corporate culture, company
lunchroom, uniforms, department outings

Esteem

Need for self-respect and respect from
others—recognition and status

Acknowledgment, feedback, promotions, perks, raises

Physiological

Need for basic survival—food, water,
­clothing, and shelter

A job with enough pay to buy the basics

workers who feel great tend to produce more. But the thinking about how to motivate workers has changed d
­ ramatically
over time. In the early 1900s, key management thinkers focused on efficiency and productivity, dictating precisely how
workers should do each element of their jobs. But more recent
research suggests that people’s thoughts and feelings play a
vital role in motivation, which leads to a range of new theories.
14-2a

Theories of Motivation

Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs Theory Noted
psychologist Abraham Maslow theorized that people
are motivated to satisfy only unmet needs. He proposed a ­
hierarchy of human needs—from basic to
abstract—­suggesting that as each need is met, people
become ­
motivated to meet the next-highest need in
the pyramid. Maslow’s five specific needs are shown in
Exhibit 14.1. While his theory was not based on the workplace, Maslow’s ideas can illuminate the needs behind
Maslow’s hierarchy of
motivation at work.
needs theory A motivation
From a workplace
theory that suggests that human
needs fall into a hierarchy and
perspective, the idea that
that as each need is met, people
people are motivated only
become motivated to meet the
by unmet needs clearly
next-highest need in the pyramid.
holds true for the first two
Theory X and Theory Y
levels of the hierarchy. FindA motivation theory that suggests
ing a job that pays the bills,
that management attitudes
for instance, is the primary
toward workers fall into two
opposing categories based on
motivator for most people
management assumptions about
who don’t have any job at
worker capabilities and values.
all. People who have a job
job enrichment The creation
but no healthcare would
of jobs with more meaningful
find health insurance much
content, under the assumption
more motivating than, say, a
that challenging, creative work
company picnic geared towill motivate employees.
ward meeting social needs.

256

But after physiological and safety needs are met, the
other needs are motivating to different degrees in different
people. An employee with strong social connections outside
work might be more motivated by a promotion that meets
esteem needs than by a company outing that meets social
needs. A number of firms actually use self-actualization needs
as a starting point for motivating employees, by creating a
mission statement that communicates the importance of the
work. The House of Blues inspires employees through its lofty
purpose: to promote racial and spiritual harmony through
love, peace, truth, righteousness, and nonviolence.
14-2b Theory X and Theory Y
Psychologist Douglas McGregor, one of Maslow’s students,
studied workplace motivation from a different angle. He
proposed that management attitudes toward workers
would directly affect worker motivation. His research suggested that management attitudes fall into two opposing
categories, which he called Theory X and ­Theory Y,
­described in Exhibit 14.2.
McGregor proposed that managers should employ
Theory Y assumptions to capitalize on the imagination
and intelligence of every worker. In American business
­today, some organizations use a Theory X approach, but a
­growing number have begun to at least experiment with
­Theory Y, tapping into a rich pool of employee input.

Job Enrichment A number of researchers have focused on creating jobs with more meaningful content,
under the assumption that challenging, creative work
will motivate employees to give their best effort. Job
enrichment typically includes the following factors:
1. Skill Variety: Workers can use a range of different
skills.
2. Task Identity: Workers complete tasks with clear
beginnings and endings.

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

EXHIBIT 14.2 THEORY X AND THEORY Y
Theory X Assumptions about Workers

Theory Y Assumptions about Workers

■■ Workers dislike work and will do everything they can to avoid it.

■■ Work is as natural as play or rest—workers do not inherently dislike it.

■■ Fear is motivating—coercion and threats are vital to get people to

■■ Different rewards can be motivating—people can exercise self-direction

work toward company goals.

and self-control to meet ­company goals.

■■ People prefer to be directed, avoiding responsibility and seeking

security.

■■ People can accept and even seek responsibility.
■■ The capacity for imagination, creativity, and ingenuity is widely distributed

in the population.
■■ The intellectual capacity of the average worker is underutilized in the

workplace.

3. Task Significance: Workers
understand the impact of the
task on others.

Imagine if your professor announced
on the first day of class that
“If we are not making
he or she had never given any stumistakes, we’re not
dent an A, as a matter of principle.
4. Autonomy: Workers have
trying hard enough.”
Would you be motivated to perform
freedom and authority regardin class? Not likely—the link between
J A M E S Q U I N C E Y,
ing their jobs.
performance and reward would be
CEO, COCA-COLA
5. Feedback: Workers receive
broken. Retailer Hot Topic has done
clear, ­frequent information
a particularly strong job implementabout their ­performance.
ing the link between effort and perRichard Branson, maverick founder of the Virgin
formance. A Hot Topic employee describes the connection,
Group, relies on job enrichment, especially autonomy and
saying, “I’ve worked for HT for five years, and the best thing
feedback, to keep people motivated at his 350-company
I’ve learned is that if you work hard enough and dedicate
empire (which includes a startling range of firms, such
enough of yourself to something, you can achieve your
as Virgin Atlantic Airlines, Virgin Music, Virgin mobile
goals!” Hot Topic has also established strong links between
phones, and Virgin Galactic space travel). Branson gives
performance and rewards. Perhaps it’s no coincidence that
his managers a stake in their companies and then tells
Hot Topic was one of the few retail chains that continued to
them “to run it as if it’s their own.” He says, “I have to be
perform well, even as the recession tightened its grip in late
good at helping people run the individual businesses,
2008 and early 2009.4
and I have to be willing to step back. The company must
be set up so it can continue without me.” According to
Equity Theory Pioneered by J. Stacy Adams, e
­ quity
Virgin’s website, “we pretty much practice a collaborative
theory proposes that perceptions of fairness directly
and supportive style of custodianship.” Due in large part
­affect worker motivation. The key idea is that people won’t
to Branson’s motivational approach, the Virgin workforce
be motivated if they believe that the relationship between
is fully engaged with the company, contributing to its
what they contribute and what they earn is different from
remarkable long-term success.3
the relationship between what others contribute and what

Expectancy Theory Usually attributed to researcher
Victor Vroom, expectancy theory deals with the
relationship among individual effort, individual performance, and individual reward. The key concept is that a
worker will be motivated if he or she believes that effort
will lead to performance, and performance will lead to a
meaningful reward.
Effort → Performance → Reward
The theory suggests that if any link in the chain is broken,
the employee will not be motivated.

others earn. For example, if you worked ten-hour days, and
earned less than the guy in
the next cube who works
expectancy theory A
seven-hour days, you’d
motivation theory that concerns
probably think it was pretty
the relationship among individual
unfair. To restore a sense of
effort, individual performance,
and individual reward.
balance, you might:
■■

Demand a raise

■■

Start coming in late,
leaving early, and taking
extra-long lunch hours

equity theory A motivation
theory that proposes that
perceptions of fairness directly
affect worker motivation.

CHAPTER 14: Management, Motivation, and Leadership: Bringing Business to Life
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

257

Do You Have Hustle?
Today’s business leaders didn’t invent the concept
of “hustle,” but they are certainly putting a new
spin on what hustle means. Jeff Sinelli, CEO
of fast-growing restaurant chain Which Wich
Superior Sandwiches, likes to joke that he
emerged from the womb “naked and broke,
sold his umbilical cord to the doctor, and
hasn’t stopped since.” As CEO, Sinelli has kept
Which Wich’s focus on hustle, encouraging his
team to maintain a “sense of urgency”
in serving customers. Fortune
describes the hustle culture as
follows, especially in regard to
tech driven start-ups: “Move
first and move fast. Encourage

Mark Nazh/Shutterstock.com

■■

Convince yourself that the other guy is about to be
fired (or try to get him fired)

■■

Look for another job

The response to perceived inequity almost always involves
trying to change the system, changing your own work habits, distorting your perceptions, or leaving the company.
But keep in mind that equity theory is based on perceptions, which are not always on the mark. People are all
too prone to overestimate their own contributions, which
throws perceived equity out of balance. The best way to
combat equity issues is through clear, open communication from management.6
14-2c

Motivation Today

Companies today use a range of approaches to motivation,
although several key themes have emerged. Most firms no
longer seek to make their employees happy; instead, they
want their workers to be productive and engaged. Yet, for
employees, work is about more than just productivity. University of Michigan business school professor David Ulrich
points out that even in today’s hyper-competitive environment, “people still want to find meaning in their work and
in the institutions that employ them.”7
A growing emphasis on corporate culture has captured the best of both worlds for companies that do it
right. A look at Fortune magazine’s 100 Best Companies
to Work for in 2017 demonstrates that a distinctive, positive culture tends to create productive employees who are
deeply attached to their work and their companies. The
winners tend to emphasize the health and well-being of

258

internal competition. Test and learn. Always push relentlessly
forward. Learn from your mistakes. Above all else, hustle.”
Under the direction of hard-driving CEO Travis Kalanick, ride
share behemoth Uber took its hustle-oriented culture to an
extreme, resulting in a toxic, macho environment that led to
a raft of lawsuits, executive firings, disgruntled employees,
and ultimately, a loss of revenue. According to some sources,
hiring managers in the Bay Area have begun evaluating
once highly sought-after applicants from Uber
with a new degree of skepticism. More and
more, a “hustle-oriented culture” has become
something to be afraid of. Hustle clearly
has value, but it also works best when it
is balanced with empathy, respect,
and sheer human decency.5

their employees and to offer strong commitments to make
the world a better place. Google, which has been on the
list for 11 years and in the number one slot for eight years,
offers employees a famous set of perks at their Silicon Valley headquarters, including on-site haircutting, massage
services, game facilities, and 25 cafés companywide, all
free. As one happy Googler writes, “The company culture
truly makes workers feel they’re valued and respected as
a human being, not as a cog in a machine.” Despite—or
perhaps in part because of the pricey perks—everything
at Google is up: revenue, profits, share price, paid search
clicks, and hiring. Googlers nearly uniformly praise the
competence of their leadership, the support they receive
as professionals, and the pride they take in the challenging work they accomplish together. “Simply by being here,
I feel very naturally motivated to be (and also very proud to
be) my best possible self,” explains one employee. At a time
when many Silicon Valley corporations are coming under
fire for lack of diversity, Google has applied its rigorous analytical approach to creating a diverse, open work environment that employees describe as “safe and inclusive.”
Many firms on the 2017 list seem to value teamwork
deeply. Investment firm Baird, for example, maintains and
enforces a rigorous “no a**holes” policy, calling for zero
tolerance of those who don’t play well with others at any
level of the organization. Two-thirds of Baird’s employees
are also shareholders, which leads to a feeling among
employees that “everyone is playing the same game and
we are all equal contributors.” Similarly, 100% employeeowned engineering, architecture, and construction firm
Burns & McDonnell is frequently praised for its tightly knit,

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

REUTERS/Erin Siegal

Many “Googlers” especially appreciate
the top-quality free food that’s always
available for employees.

highly collaborative teams and its stance that “selfish behavior gets you nowhere.”8
Many firms on the 2017 list also give their employees
generous sabbaticals. Senior managers at Kimpton are
eligible for month-long sabbaticals after seven years—but
only if they promise to unplug from their work emails and
phone calls. Adobe gives four weeks of paid time off after five years of service, five weeks after ten years, and six
weeks after fifteen years. Genentech gives a six-week paid
sabbatical after six years of service. Upscale home builder
David Weekley Homes offers employees up to six weeks of
paid sabbatical after ten years of service and even throws
in a grant of $2,000 for travel and education expenses.9
A number of firms on the 2017 list have expanded their
benefits programs to include a range of nontraditional services that employees love. At pet-friendly Kimpton Hotels
& Restaurants, for example, employees are encouraged to
bring their dogs to work. When a pet dies and employees
need some time to grieve, “We make all the accommodations possible for that employee to show care for him/her
during a difficult time.” Professional services firm KPMG has
an annual summer gift program, which it uses to celebrate
success and thank employees for their contributions. In recent years, annual summer gifts have included barbecue
and ice cream packages sent to all KPMGers’ homes so they
can share with their friends and family members. Technology
company Workday offers its staffers a personal concierge service to help schedule appointments, run errands, go shopping, and more.10
Unique corporate cultures also contribute to employee
motivation. Detroit-based Quicken Loans nurtures such an
open culture that CEO Bill Emerson has given his personal
cell phone number to each of the firm’s 8,500 employees,

and has not received any prank calls, only a handful of
“pocket calls.”When Facebook went public, Mark Zuckerberg
described the firm’s “hack culture” as one of its assets, more
specifically, an approach to building that involves continuous improvement and iteration. He added that “hackers
believe that something can always be better, and that
nothing is ever complete. They just have to go fix it—often
in the face of people who say it’s impossible or are content
with the status quo.” With the “Hacker Way,” the best idea
and implementation should always win—not the person
who is best at lobbying for an idea or the person who
manages the most people.11
Fortune also publishes a list of the hundred best
companies for millennials to work for. Work-life balance,
respecting employees, and time for fun are key themes
among the companies that make this list. At digital marketing firm Elite SEM, the number-one company on the
list, employees not only have unlimited paid vacation
days, they are required to take a week of paid time off every
year to ensure that they get a solid vacation. Listening to
employees at every level is also important to millennials.
At consulting firm Kimley-Horn, one employee remarks,
“Although I have only been here a few years, my ideas,
thoughts, issues, and solutions are always taken seriously.”
Kimley-Horn also sponsors monthly outings and events for
employees, such as Metroplex kickball tournaments, ice
cream socials, cooking contests, and pot luck dinners.

14-3

PLANNING: FIGURING OUT WHERE
TO GO AND HOW TO GET THERE

The planning function—figuring out where to go and
how to get there—is the core of effective management.
A survey in the Wall Street Journal found that 80% of
executives identify planning as their most valuable
management tool. But even though planning is critical,
it’s also highly risky in light of cutthroat competition, rapid
change, and economic uncertainty. The best plans keep
the organization on track without sacrificing flexibility
and responsiveness; they incorporate ways to respond to
change both inside and outside the organization.12
Although all managers engage in planning,
strategic planning
the scope of the process
High-level, long-term planning
that establishes a vision for
changes according to
the company, defines longthe manager’s position,
term objectives and priorities,
as shown in Exhibit 14.3.
determines broad action steps,
Top-level managers focus
and allocates resources.
on strategic planning.

CHAPTER 14: Management, Motivation, and Leadership: Bringing Business to Life
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

259

EXHIBIT 14.3

MANAGERIAL PLANNING

Type of
Planning

Management
Level

Scope of
Planning

Strategic
­Planning

Senior
management

Typically five-year time frame

Examples of Planning Questions
and Concerns
Should we acquire a new company?
Should we begin manufacturing in China?
Should we expand to overseas markets?
Should we take our company public?

Tactical ­
Planning

Middle
management

Typically one-year time frame

Should we spend more time servicing each customer?
Should we hire a public relations agency to handle PR?
Should we spend fewer ad dollars on TV and more on the Web?

Operational
Planning

First-line
management

Daily, weekly, and monthly
time frame

How should we schedule employees this week?
When should we schedule delivery for each batch of product?

They establish a vision for the company, define long-term
objectives and priorities, determine broad action steps,
and allocate resources. Middle managers focus on
tactical planning, or applying the strategic plan to
their specific areas of responsibility. And first-line managers focus on operational planning, or applying
the tactical plans to daily, weekly, and monthly operations. Successful firms often encourage a flow of feedback up and down the organization to ensure that all
key plans are sound and that all key players “buy in.”
Some typical planning decisions and time frames are
shown in Exhibit 14.3.
A fourth category of planning has gained new prominence in the past decade: contingency planning,
or planning for unexpected events. Senior management
usually spearheads contingency planning but with input
from the other levels of management. Contingency plans
consider what might go wrong—both inside the business and with the outside
environment—and develop
tactical planning More
responses. Potential issues
specific, shorter-term planning
that applies strategic plans
include:
to specific functional areas.

operational planning
Very specific, short-term planning
that applies tactical plans to daily,
weekly, and monthly operations.

contingency planning
Planning for unexpected events,
usually involving a range of
scenarios and assumptions that
differ from the assumptions
behind the core plans.

260

■   How should we respond

if our competitors knock
off our best-selling
product?
■   What should we do

if the government regulates our industry?
■   How should we respond

if our data management/
computer system fails?

Wavebreakmedia/Shutterstock.com

How should customer service people answer the phones?

Effective planning can be complex and
time-consuming.

■■

How can we restart our business if a natural disaster
destroys our plant or supply channels?

■■

How will we evacuate employees if terrorists strike
our headquarters?

Clearly, anticipating every potential problem is
impossible (and impractical). Instead, effective contingency plans tend to focus only on the issues that are
most probable, most potentially harmful, or both (see
Exhibit 14.4). For example, a Southern California amusement park (e.g., Disneyland) might concentrate its contingency plans on earthquake response, while an online
retailing firm might focus its plans on responding to a
computer hacker attack.

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

EXHIBIT 14.5  EXAMPLES OF MISSION
STATEMENTS

Exhibit 14.4

Contingency Planning Paradigm

Most Probable
Issues

Most Harmful
Issues

Focus Area for
Contingency Plans

Businesses tend to focus their contingency plans on issues that are
most probable and most potentially harmful.

Company

Mission Statement

Levi
Strauss & Co.

We will market the most ­appealing and
widely worn casual clothing in the world.
We will clothe the world.

IKEA

To create a better everyday life for the many
people. Our business idea supports this
vision by offering a wide range of welldesigned, functional home furnishing
products at prices so low that as many people
as possible will be able to afford them.

Google

To organize the world’s ­information and
make it ­universally accessible and useful.

Warby Parker

To offer designer eyewear at a revolutionary price, while leading the way for socially
conscious businesses.

EXHIBIT 14.6

14-3a Strategic Planning:

SWOT ANALYSIS

Potential Internal
Strengths

Potential External
Opportunities

Premium brand name

Higher consumer ­demand

Proven management team

Complacent ­competitors

Lower costs/higher margins

Growth in foreign markets

1. Define the mission of the organization.

Diverse workforce

New social trends

2. Evaluate the organization’s competitive position.

Potential Internal
Weaknesses

Potential External
Threats

4. Create strategies for competitive differentiation.

Low employee ­satisfaction

A powerful new ­competitor

5. Implement strategies.

Inadequate financial resources

A deep recession

6. Evaluate results, and incorporate lessons learned.

Poor location

New government ­regulations

Bad safety record

Significant new taxes

Setting the Agenda

Strategic planning is the most fundamental part of the
planning process, since all other plans—and most major
management decisions—stem from the strategic plan. The
strategic planning process typically includes these steps:

3. Set goals for the organization.

Defining Your Mission The mission of an organization articulates its essential reason for being. The

mission defines the organization’s purpose, values, and
core goals, providing the framework for all other plans (see
Exhibit 14.5). Most large companies present their mission
as a simple, vivid, compelling statement that everyone involved with the company—from the janitor to the CEO,
from customers to investors—can easily understand. Mission statements tend to vary in their length, their language,
and even their names, but they share a common goal: to
provide a clear, long-term focus for the organization.

Evaluating Your Compe­
titive Position Strategy means nothing in a vacuum—every firm must plan
in the context of the marketplace. Many companies use a
SWOT analysis (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities,

and threats) to evaluate where they stand relative to the
competition. Strengths and weaknesses are internal to the
organization, and they include factors that would eimission The definition of an
organization’s purpose, values,
ther build up or drag down
and core goals, which provides
the firm’s performance. Opthe framework for all other plans.
portunities and threats are
SWOT analysis A strategic
external, and they include
planning
tool that helps
factors that would affect the
management evaluate an
company’s performance but
organization in terms of internal
are typically out of the comstrengths and weakness, and
external opportunities and threats.
pany’s control. Exhibit 14.6
offers some ­examples.

CHAPTER 14: Management, Motivation, and Leadership: Bringing Business to Life
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

261

Managing Millennials
be more similar to than different from other generations. For
example, millennial employees are less likely than Gen Xers
to use personal social media accounts for work purposes.
Perhaps even more surprising, millennials’ preferred method
of learning new work skills is face-to-face contact. So before
you develop brand new tools and programs for millennial
employees, consider rethinking and reintroducing the tools
and programs that you already have.

The millennial generation—roughly defined as people born in
the 1980s and 1990s—is currently the largest generation in the
workforce. Many businesses around the world are experiencing
a great deal of stress over how to effectively manage millennials
and keep them positive and productive. In fact, according to
The Wall Street Journal, the concern has grown so intense that
it has spawned a cottage industry of self-anointed experts who
“decode” millennials for as much as $20,000 an hour. Yes, you
read that right—$20,000 an HOUR!

▪▪ Assuming that generational differences are more important than
cultural differences. American millennials have a reputation for
always being on the lookout for the next best job. But this isn’t
the case everywhere—research shows that different cultures
have different perspectives on company loyalty. In Peru, 82%
of millennials expect to leave their employer in the next five
years. In Belgium, only 51% do. Similarly, the share of millennials who have refused a work task because it conflicts with
their values or ethics is generally high in Latin America—71%
in Colombia—but only 20% in Japan.

But even with the help of pricey consultants, bosses continue
to make mistakes as they manage millennials. Here are three
common goofs:

Monkey Business Images/Shutterstock.com

▪▪ Treating millennials like a different species. Contrary to the
stereotype, recent research shows that millennials seem to

Initial information about internal strengths and weaknesses usually comes from careful analysis of internal reports on topics such as budget and profitability. But to
better understand strengths and weaknesses, executives
should actively seek firsthand information—on a personal
basis—from key people throughout the company, from
front-line workers to the board of directors.
Gathering information about external opportunities and threats can be more complex, since these areas
include both current and
potential issues (which can
strategic goals Concrete
benchmarks that managers can
be tough to predict). Inforuse to measure performance in
mation about external faceach key area of the organization.
tors can come from many
strategies Action plans that
different sources, includhelp the organization achieve its
ing the news, government
goals by forging the best fit between
reports, customers, and
the firm and the environment.
competitors.

262

▪▪ Forgetting that millennials differ widely in terms of age and
gender. Born between 1982 and 2000, the millennial generation
spans a wide range of ages and life cycle stages. A student in
his late teens is just as much a millennial as a manager in her
mid-thirties. Differences in experience, personal characteristics,
and expectations are vast across the generation. Millennials also
differ significantly by gender. For example, older and female
millennials expect to stay in their current jobs longer than do
younger and male millennials, say Bentley University researchers.
The most reasonable conclusion here is that millennials are a highly
diverse group. Managing them effectively requires an openness to
new perspectives and a wide range of thoughtful incentives.13

Setting Your Goals Strategic goals represent concrete benchmarks that managers can use to measure performance in each key area of the organization. They must
fit the firm’s mission and tie directly to its competitive position. The three most effective goals are:
1. Specific and Measurable: Whenever possible, managers should define goals in clear numerical terms that
everyone understands.
2. Tied to a Time Frame: To create meaning and
­urgency, goals should be linked to a specific deadline.
3. Realistic but Challenging: Goals that make people
stretch can motivate exceptional performance.
Exhibit 14.7 offers examples of how weak goals can
transform into powerful goals.

Creating Your Strategies Strategies are action plans that help the organization achieve its goals by

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

EXHIBIT 14.7  GOAL SETTING: GETTING
IT RIGHT

14-4

Weak Goal

Powerful Goal

Become More
innovative.

Introduce one new product each quarter for
the next three years.

Reduce
­Delinquent
Accounts.

Reduce delinquent ­accounts to no more
than 1% of the total by the next quarter.

Increase
Market Share.

Become the #1 or #2 brand in each market
where we compete by the end of 2015.

forging the best fit between the firm and the environment.
The underlying aim, of course, is to create a significant
advantage versus the competition. Sources of competitive advantage vary, ranging from better product quality
to better technology, to more motivated employees. The
most successful companies build their advantage across
several fronts. Southwest Airlines, for example, has a more
motivated workforce and a lower cost structure. H&M has
lower prices and more fashionable clothing choices. And
Procter & Gamble has more innovative new products and
strong core brands.
The specifics of strategy differ by industry and by
company, but all strategies represent a roadmap. The
SWOT analysis determines the starting point, and the objectives signify the immediate destination. Since speed
matters, you must begin mapping the next leg of the
journey even before you arrive. For added complexity, you
never know—given the turbulent environment—when
you might hit roadblocks. This means that strategies must
be dynamic and flexible. Top managers have responded
to this challenge by encouraging front-line managers to
participate in the process more than ever before.

Implementing Your Strategies Implementation
should happen largely through tactical planning. Middle
managers in each key area of the company must develop
plans to carry out core strategies in their area. If the strategic
plan, for example, calls for more new products, marketing
would need to generate ideas, finance would need to find
funding, and sales would need to prepare key accounts.
And all of these steps would require tactical planning.

Evaluating Your Results and Incorporating
Lessons Learned Evaluation of results should be a
continual process, handled by managers at every level as
part of their controlling function, covered further in this
chapter. But for evaluation to be meaningful, the lessons
learned must be analyzed objectively and factored back
into the next planning cycle.

ORGANIZING: FITTING
TOGETHER THE PUZZLE PIECES

The organizing function of management means creating
a logical structure for people, their jobs, and their patterns
of interaction. And clearly, the pieces can fit together in a
number of different ways. In choosing the right structure
for a specific company, management typically considers
many factors, including the goals and strategies of the firm,
its products, its use of technology, its size, and the structure
of its competitors. Given the potential for rapid change in
each of these factors, smart companies continually reexamine their structure and make changes whenever necessary. Microsoft, for instance, restructures its organization
every couple of years as new challenges emerge.
But to be effective, reorganizations—and their
purpose—must be clear to employees throughout the
company. Xerox CEO Anne Mulcahy learned the hard
way. Her comments: “During the 1990s, we had lots of
consultants on organizational effectiveness. We sliced
and diced the business into industries, product lines, and
geographies . . . you name it. It looked good on paper,
but fell apart in implementation. I found myself in a job
where I couldn’t look anybody in the eye and feel clear
accountability for anything . . . I’ll trade off organizational
design for clarity and accountability any day of the week!”14
To help employees understand how they and their
jobs fit within the broader organization, most firms issue
an organization chart, or a visual representation of the
company’s formal structure, as shown in Exhibit 14.8.
Looking at the company represented by Exhibit 14.8,
you would probably assume that the vice president of
production has more power than a regular employee
in the marketing department. And in terms of formal
power, you’d be absolutely right. But if the marketing
employee babysits on the weekend for the president’s
granddaughter, the balance of power may actually be a
bit different than it seems. Make no mistake: The formal
structure matters. But knowing how power flows on an
informal basis could dramatically increase your effectiveness as well, by helping you target your ideas to the
right managers and marshal the support of the most influential employees.
14-4a Key Organizing

Considerations

In developing the organizational structure, management must make decisions

organization chart
A visual representation of the
company’s formal structure.

CHAPTER 14: Management, Motivation, and Leadership: Bringing Business to Life
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

263

understand the firm’s mission, goals, and strategy; otherwise, the company could
develop a fragmented image, which would undermine
its long-term strength. Also,
active communication across
departments is essential so
that all employees can benefit from innovations in other
parts of the organization.

Exhibit 14.8

Sample Organization Chart
President

Vice President,
Marketing

Employee

Vice President,
Production

Employee

Employee

Employee

Span of Control The
span of control, or span

of management, refers to the
number of people a manager
supervises. There is no ideal
Employee
Employee
number for every manager.
The “right” span of control
varies, based on the abilities
of both the manager and
the subordinates, the nature
about the degree of centralization, the span of manageof the work being done, the location of the employees,
ment control, and the type of departmentalization that
and the need for planning and coordination. Across indusmakes the most sense at any given time.
tries, the general trend has moved toward wider spans of
control as a growing number of companies have pruned
layers of middle management to the bare minimum.
Centralization The degree of centralization
­relates directly to the source of power and control. In cenDepartmentalization Departmentalization
tralized companies, a small number of people at the top
means breaking workers into logical groups. A numof the organization have the power to make decisions.
ber of different options make sense, depending on the
This approach is simple and efficient, and the result tends
organization.
to be a strong corporate image and a uniform customer
approach across the front lines. But the downside is that
centralized companies typically respond more slowly to
customer needs and have lower employee morale. The
tradeoff may be worthwhile in steady, stable markets, but
those are rare.
Faced with today’s turbulent environment, most
firms are moving toward greater decentralization, pushing power to the lower
levels of the organization.
degree of centralization
Employees with the power
The extent to which decisionto make decisions can remaking power is held by a small
spond to customer needs
number of people at the top of the
more quickly and effecorganization.
tively. They can also capispan of control Span of
talize on opportunities that
management; refers to the number
would likely vaporize in the
of people a manager supervises.
time it would take to get
departmentalization
permission to act. But for
The division of workers into logical
decentralization to work,
groups.
every employee must fully

264

■■

Functional: Dividing employees into groups based
on area of expertise, such as marketing, finance, and
engineering, tends to be efficient and easy to coordinate. For those reasons, it works especially well for
small- to medium-sized firms.

■■

Product: Dividing employees into groups based on
the products that a company offers helps workers
develop expertise about products that often results
in especially strong customer relations.

■■

Customer: Dividing employees into groups based
on the customers that a company serves helps
companies focus on the needs of specific customer
groups. Many companies have separate departments for meeting the needs of business and
consumer users. This approach is related to product
departmentalization.

■■

Geographical: Dividing employees into groups
based on where customers are located can help
different departments better serve specific regions

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Wanna Be More Productive? Relax!!

Studies of vacation show that taking more
vacation days has a dramatic positive impact on
worker performance. Unfortunately, whether it’s
obsession, dedication, or fear of unreasonable
bosses, a recent study showed that the average
American leaves four full days of paid vacation on the table each
year. That’s still better that South Korea, where workers throw
an average 11 of their 15 available days of paid vacation away.
Europeans, on the other hand, tend to use all of their 30 days of
paid vacation—leading to a much healthier work-life balance.

within one country. Similarly, many international
firms create a separate department for each different
country they serve.
■■

Process: Dividing into groups based on what
type of work employees do is common in
manufacturing, where management may divide
departments by processes such as cutting, dyeing,
and sewing.

As companies get larger, they usually adopt several
different types of depart­mentalization at different levels of
the organization. This approach, shown in Exhibit 14.9, is
called “hybrid departmentalization.”
14-4b Organization Models
Company structures tend to follow one of three different
patterns: line organizations, line-and-staff organizations,
and matrix organizations. But these organizational models are not mutually exclusive. In fact, many management
teams build their structure using elements of each model
at different levels of the organization.

Like sleep deprivation, not taking vacation days can be bad for
the economy. Project: TimeOff estimates that servicing the needs
of those unused American vacation days could have created
1.6 million jobs, resulting in $65 billion in additional income.
If Americans used just one more day of vacation per year, the
economy would see a $34 billion jump in total spending.
CEO Tony Schwartz attempts to run his business on the
principle that the energy people bring to their jobs is more
important than the number of hours they
work. He and his management team have
policies in place that reflect the idea that,
“When we’re renewing, we’re truly renewing,
so when we’re working, we can really work.”
Partly because of this ethos, in the decade
that his firm has been in business, no one has
chosen to leave the company. If more CEOs
communicated this message, chances are
that more vacation time would actually be
used. Eighty percent of employees surveyed
by Project: TimeOff said that if they felt
fully supported and encouraged by their boss, they would
be more likely to take more time off. A growing number of
high-profile companies, such as Virgin Group and Netflix, are
offering employees unlimited or unmonitored vacation days
to encourage time off and rejuvenation.15
Haveseen/Shutterstock.com

Ironically, a growing body of research suggests rather strongly
that the best way to get more done may be to spend more
time doing less, which may include daytime workouts, short
afternoon naps, longer sleep hours at night, and longer, more
frequent vacations. Despite misguided efforts to make it
otherwise, time is definitely finite; energy, on the other hand, can
be renewed. A recent study on the economic costs of insufficient
sleep (less than six hours per night) found that a lack of sleep
among the U.S. workforce is costing businesses
about $411 billion in lost productivity each year.
The study, which spanned the United States,
the United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, and
Japan, found that the United States sustained
the highest economic losses due to sleep
deprivation by far.

Line Organizations A line organization typically has a clear, simple chain of command from top
to bottom. Each person is directly accountable to the
person immediately above, which means quick decision
making and no fuzziness about who is responsible for
what. The downside is a lack of specialists to provide advice or support for line managers. This approach tends
to work well for small businesses, but for medium-sized
and large companies, the result can be inflexibility,
too much paperwork, and
even incompetence, since
line organizations
experts aren’t available
Organizations with a clear, simple
to give their input on key
chain of command from top to
bottom.
decisions.
Line-and-Staff
Organizations A lineand-staff organization
incorporates the benefits of a line organization
without all the drawbacks.

line-and-staff
organizations
Organizations with line managers
forming the primary chain of
authority in the company, and
staff departments working
alongside line departments.

CHAPTER 14: Management, Motivation, and Leadership: Bringing Business to Life
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

265

Exhibit 14.9

An Example of Hybrid Departmentalization
President

Vice President,
Production

Vice President,
Sales

Southwest
Office

Northeast
Office

Business
Sales

Consumer
Sales

Business
Sales

Vice President,
Human Resources

Consumer
Sales

Line managers supervise the functions that contribute
directly to profitability: production and marketing. Staff
managers, on the other hand, supervise the functions

Geographic
Departmentalization

Midwest
Office

Business
Sales

Functional
Departmentalization

Consumer
Sales

Customer
Departmentalization

companies. But in some firms, the staff departments gain
so much power that they become dictatorial, imposing
unreasonable limitations on the rest of the company.

that provide advice and assistance to the line departments. Examples include legal, accounting, and human resources. In a line-and-staff organization, the line managers
form the primary chain of authority in the company. Staff
departments work alongside line departments, but there
is no direct reporting relationship (except at the top of the
company). Since staff people don’t report to line people,
their authority comes from their know-how. This approach,
which overlays fast decision
making with additional exline managers Managers
pertise,
tends to work well
who supervise the functions that
for medium-sized and large
contribute directly to profitability:
production and marketing.

staff managers Managers
who supervise the functions that
provide advice and assistance to
the line departments.

matrix organizations
Organizations with a flexible
structure that brings together
specialists from different areas of
the company to work on individual
projects on a temporary basis.

266

Matrix Organizations Matrix organizations build
on the line-and-staff approach by adding a lot more flexibility. A matrix structure brings together specialists from different areas of the company to work on individual projects on
a temporary basis. A new-product-development team, for
instance, might include representatives from sales, engineering, finance, purchasing, and advertising. For the course of the
project, each specialist reports to the project manager and to
the head of his or her own department (e.g., the vice president of marketing). The matrix approach has been particularly
popular in the high-tech and aerospace industries.
The matrix structure offers several key
advantages. It encourages teamwork and
“Management is
communication across the organization. It
offers flexibility in deploying key people. It
doing things right;
lends itself to innovative solutions. And not
leadership is doing
surprisingly—when managed well—the
the right things.”
matrix structure creates a higher level of motivation and satisfaction for employees. But
—PETER DRUCKER,
these advantages have a clear flip side. The
MANAGEMENT RESEARCHER,
need for constant communication can bog
WRITER, AND SPEAKER
down a company in too many meetings.

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

The steady state of flux can be overwhelming for both
managers and employees. And having two bosses can
cause conflict and stress for everyone.

LEADERSHIP: DIRECTING
AND INSPIRING

While most people easily recognize a great leader, defining the qualities of leaders can be more complex since
successful leaders have a staggering range of personalities, characteristics, and backgrounds. Most researchers
agree that true leaders are trustworthy, visionary, and
inspiring. After all, we don’t follow people who don’t
know where they’re going, and we definitely don’t follow
people we don’t trust. Other key leadership traits include
empathy, courage, creativity, intelligence, and fairness.
14-5a Leadership Style
How a leader uses power defines his or her leadership
style. While the range of specific styles is huge, most seem
to cluster into three broad categories: autocratic, democratic, and free-rein. The categories fall along a continuum
of power, with the manager at one end and the employees
at the other, as shown in Exhibit 14.10.
Autocratic leaders hoard decision-making power
for themselves, and they typically issue orders without
consulting their followers. Democratic leaders share
power with their followers. Even though they still make

Exhibit 14.10

The Continuum of Leadership
and Power

Employee
Power

Free-Rein
Leadership

Management
Power

Democratic
Leadership

Autocratic
Leadership

Monkey Business/Fotolia LLC

14-5

The most effective leaders are typically
comfortable using a range of different
leadership styles.

final decisions, they typically solicit and incorporate input
from their followers. Free-rein leaders set objectives for
their followers but give them freedom to choose how they
accomplish those goals.
Interestingly, the most effective leaders don’t use just
one approach. They tend to shift their leadership style, depending on the followers and the situation. When a quick
decision is paramount, autocratic leadership may make the
most sense. An army officer, for example, probably shouldn’t
take a vote on whether to storm a hill in the middle of a
firefight. But when creativity is the top priority—during
new-product brainstorming, for instance—free-rein management would probably work best. Likewise, a brand-new
worker might benefit from autocratic (but friendly) management, while a talented, experienced employee would
probably work best under free-rein leadership.
Another vital consideration is the customer. When
the customer seeks consistency in the delivery of the
product—in fast food, for
instance—the autocratic
autocratic leaders Leaders
who hoard decision-making
leadership style may be
power for themselves and
appropriate. But when the
typically issue orders without
customer needs flexibilconsulting their followers.
ity and problem-solving
democratic leaders
assistance—a consulting
Leaders who share power with
client, for example—the
their followers. While they
free-rein leadership style
still make final decisions, they
typically solicit and incorporate
may be most effective. The
input from their followers.
democratic
leadership
free-rein leaders Leaders
style typically provides
customers with a balance
of consistency and flexibility, which works across
a wide range of industries.

who set objectives for their
followers but give them
freedom to choose how they will
accomplish those goals.

CHAPTER 14: Management, Motivation, and Leadership: Bringing Business to Life
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

267

14-6

CONTROLLING: MAKING
SURE IT ALL WORKS

Nerthuz/Shutterstock

Controlling may be the least glamorous of the management functions, but don’t be fooled: It’s critically important.
­Controlling means monitoring performance of the firm—
or individuals within the firm—and making improvements
when necessary. As the environment changes, plans
change. And as plans change, the control process must
change as well, to ensure that the company achieves its
goals. The control process includes three key steps:
1. Establish clear performance standards.
2. Measure actual performance
against standards.
3. Take corrective action if necessary.

be communication. Employees with full information are far
more likely to improve their performance than employees who
never learn that they’re falling
behind. But sometimes workers
need more than information—
they may need ­
additional resources or coaching to meet
their goals. Apple’s Steve Jobs
was often accused of being a
­tyrannical boss—especially in the
employee-evaluation process—
but he defended himself by
saying, “My job is not to be easy
on people. My job is to make
—T ON Y HSIE H, C E O,
them better.” If they still don’t
ZAPPOS.COM
succeed, perhaps the goals
themselves need reexamination
as part of a dynamic planning process. Given the expense in both human and financial terms, d
­ isciplining
employees for poor performance should come only
after exploring the reasons for not meeting goals and
making changes if necessary.

“Never accept or
be too comfortable
with the status
quo, because the
companies that
get into trouble are
historically the ones
that aren’t able to
adapt to change
and respond quickly
enough.”

Establishing clear standards—
or performance goals—begins with
planning. At every level of planning, objectives should emerge that
are consistent with the company’s
mission and strategic plan. The objectives must be (1) specific and measurable, (2) realistic but challenging, and
(3) tied to a time frame. Individual
managers may need to break these
goals into smaller parts for specific
employees, but the subgoals should
retain the same three qualities as the
original objective.
Measuring performance against
standards should happen well before
the end of the time frame attached to the goal. A strong
information-tracking system is probably management’s
best tool in this phase of the control process.
If the company or individual is not on track to
meet the goals, management’s first response should

THE BIG PICTURE
In the past decade, management has become
more complex and demanding than ever
before. Managers in every area of the business must carry out
their roles—planning, organizing, leading, and controlling—in
a relentlessly fast-paced world, seething with constant change.
While management isn’t for everyone, it’s often a fit for people
with vision, courage, integrity, energy, and a passionate
commitment to their companies.

268

Looking forward, the role of management will continue to
evolve in response to the environment. Regardless of how the
changes unfold, several key factors will be absolutely vital for
successful managers in the twenty-first century: a constant
focus on the customer, a commitment to globalization,
excellent judgment, and the right mix of talented, motivated
employees.

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

CAREERS IN MANAGEMENT
Manager
Define strategic and tactical objectives for the organization or
business unit. Develop plans to meet those objectives. Coach,
counsel, motivate, and develop employees. Maintain and allocate
resources as necessary to attain goals. Monitor achievement of

STUDY TOOLS

objectives and make changes as necessary. Create and oversee a
business unit budget. Ensure product and service quality by setting
and enforcing standards. Foster a business culture that aligns with
the broader organizational culture. Communicate and collaborate
as appropriate throughout the organization. Maintain current
professional and technical knowledge.

14

LOCATED AT BACK OF THE TEXTBOOK
■■

Rip-Out Chapter Review Card

■■

Gain unique perspectives on key concepts with new concept
videos in the e-book
Increase your comprehension with online homework and
quizzes

■■

■■

Study with existing flashcards and make your own

CHAPTER 14: Management, Motivation, and Leadership: Bringing Business to Life
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

269

15

Human Resource
Management:

Building a Top-Quality Workforce

LEARNING OBJECTIVES
After studying this chapter, you will be able to:
15-1 Explain the importance of human resources to business success

PAGE 285

15-2 Discuss key human resource issues in today’s economy
15-3 Outline challenges and opportunities that the human resources function faces

for additional

15-4 Discuss human resource planning and core human resources responsibilities

STUDY TOOLS

15-5 Explain the key federal legislation that affects human resources

15-1

HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT: BRINGING BUSINESS TO LIFE

As competition accelerates across the globe, leading firms in every business
category have recognized that a quality workforce can vault them over
the competition. Southwest Airlines was early to recognize the untapped
potential of its people. Executive Chair Herb Kelleher declared, “We value
our employees first. They’re the most important, and if you treat them right,
then they treat the customers right, and if you treat the customers right,
then they keep coming back and shareholders are happy.” His attitude has
more than paid off. Southwest Airlines has posted profits for 44 consecutive
years, even as other airlines have spiraled into decline.
As the Great Recession constricted the economy in
2009, managing human resources remained a top priority for Southwest CEO Gary Kelly. “We’ve never had a layoff. We’ve never had a pay cut. And we’re going to strive
mightily, especially this year, to avoid them once again.”
Instead, he says, “We’re being more creative about encouraging employees to move about the company. We are not

270

threatening people with their jobs.” He points out, “We’re
known for being the greatest company to work for and at
the top of the ­customer service rankings.” He maintains,
“There is a devotion to the people and a commitment
to our people, once we hire them, that we have lived up
to. We have proven many times that we’re going to be
there for our employees in the bad times.” Even the union

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Andrey_Popov/Shutterstock.com

Remember to visit

supports management, describing the naturally confrontational relationship as one of “the loyal opposition as
opposed to death to the infidel. It’s adversarial to get to a
goal, not adversarial to hurt.”1
Companies that get the most from their people often consider their human resources their biggest investment. They view the core goal of human resource (HR)
­management in a similar light: to nurture their human investment so that it yields the highest possible return. HR can
achieve that goal by recruiting world-class talent, promoting
career development, and boosting organizational effectiveness. But clearly, this can happen only in partnership with
key managers throughout the company, especially senior
executives. (In smaller companies, the owners usually handle
HR management in addition to their other responsibilities.)

15-2

HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
CHALLENGES: MAJOR HURDLES

Building a top-quality workforce can be tougher than
it may initially seem. Human resource managers—and
their counterparts throughout the company—face
huge challenges. The best strategies still aren’t clear,

“If something goes wrong, it’s
my problem; if something goes
right, it’s their success.”
— PA M E L A F I E L D S, F O RM E R C E O, S T E T S O N

but forward-thinking firms tend to experiment with
new approaches.
15-2a

Layoffs and Outsourcing

As high-tech, high-end jobs follow low-tech, low-end jobs
out of the country—or even just to local contractors—
human resources find themselves in turmoil. Many jobs have
disappeared altogether as
com­
panies have contracted
human resource (HR)
in response to the Great Remanagement The
cession. In 2011 and 2012,
management function focused
many economists were conon maximizing the effectiveness
cerned about a “jobless recovof the workforce by recruiting
world-class talent, promoting
ery,” as labor markets faltered,
career development, and
and unemployment rates
determining workforce strategies
began to rise again. How can
to boost organizational
businesses boost the moeffectiveness.
rale and the motivation level

CHAPTER 15: Human Resource Management: Building a Top-Quality Workforce
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

271

of the employees who are left behind? Does less job security translate
to less worker loyalty? How can human resources continue to add value
as the ground shifts beneath them—
and as they wonder how long their
own jobs will last?2

talent and experience through massive retirements. Beginning January
If forced to choose,
1, 2011, every day more than 10,000
45% of millennial
baby boomers reached the age of
workers would choose
65, and that will continue to happen
every day until 2030.5 Enlightened
workplace flexibility
companies have responded with
over increased pay.
programs to retain their best em—MILLENNIAL BRANDING
ployees through flexible schedules,
15-2b Wage Gap
training opportunities, and creative
Comparing CEO pay to worker pay demonstrates a startling
pay schedules. But as companies aggressively trimmed
wage gap, bigger in the United States than in any other
their payrolls in 2008 and 2009, the priority of these kinds
developed country. In 2014, the average American CEO
of programs plummeted, which may leave some firms
earned 303 times what the average employee earned. This
with a critical dearth of highly experienced workers when
represents an increase of 54.3% since the economic recovthe economy revs back up. Pharmacy giant CVS Caremark
ery began in 2009 and an increase of 3.9% since 2013 alone.
views maintaining its older workers as a critical competiMeanwhile, most other workers have faced stagnant wages.3
tive advantage. The company offers a “snowbird” program
As a point of comparison, 30 years ago, chief executives avwhereby several hundred pharmacists and other employeraged only 30 to 40 times the average American worker’s
ees from cold northern states are transferred to pharmacies
paycheck. In 2009, median CEO salaries at 200 large, publicly
in Florida and other warmer states each winter. According
held U.S. firms fell by 0.9%, while net income decreased by
to one CVS executive, “A good number of our pharmacy
5%. Most observers don’t object to the CEO-worker pay gap
customers are going to be mature customers, and as part of
when top CEO pay is tied to top performance. But as the
our focus on diversity, we want a workforce that reflects our
value of formerly high-flying corporations began to evapocustomer base . . . so it was a no-brainer for us to have a lot
rate in 2008 and 2009, public rage over senior management
of mature workers as part of our overall work force.”6
salaries and bonuses hit new highs. But the tide turned in
2011, when data revealed CEO pay during 2011 was corre15-2d Younger Workers
lated to how well companies fared in the stock market, a
As twenty-somethings enter the workforce, they often bring
change from 2010. The pay for performance trend continued
optimism, open minds, technological know-how, a team orithrough 2014, as investors gained more control over execuentation, a proven ability to multitask, and a multicultural pertive compensation. Although pay for performance appeals
spective. But a number of them also bring an unprecedented
both to investors and to the general public, a recent article
sense of entitlement. This can translate into startlingly high
in the Harvard Business Review suggests that performanceexpectations for their pay, their responsibilities, and their job
based pay can actually have dangerous outcomes for the
flexibility, but little willingness to “pay dues.” Many have no excompanies that implement it. In jobs that require learning
pectation that their employers will be loyal to them, and they
and creativity—such as top management positions—tying
don’t feel that they owe their companies strong loyalty. Manpay to performance can actually harm the company. How
aging this group can sometimes be a challenge, but compaso? Suppose a CEO’s performance rating is tied to the
nies that do it well stand to deliver results for years to come.7
company’s stock price, so he cuts back on research and
development spending in order to meet short-term stock
price goals. This move is in the CEO’s best interest personally, but it could devastate the company in the long run.
Performance-based pay also increases the likelihood that a
top-level manager is willing to cook the books to achieve his
or her performance goals. Untangling these sorts of issues is
a real strategic challenge for HR management.4
15-2c

Older Workers

As the oversized baby boomer generation begins turning
60, their employers—which include virtually every major
American company—face a potential crisis: the loss of key

272

15-2e

Women Workers

Over the past few decades, women have made enormous
strides in terms of workplace equality. But several large-scale
studies confirm that women continue to face daunting discrimination in terms of both pay and promotions. While unfair treatment has been an issue for many years, recent legal
changes have made it easier for women to sue, costing companies millions of dollars in the past decade alone. And the
flood of lawsuits shows no signs of slowing. Many women
have responded to the unfriendly business environment by
leaving the workforce; droves of highly qualified, professional

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Women at Work and the Persistent Pay Gap
In 1980, women earned just $0.67 for every dollar that their
male counterparts earned. Fortunately, the picture has
improved quite a bit for women in the workforce. As of 2015
(the latest available data), women earned $0.83 for every dollar
that men earned. Although the pay gap is better today than
it was in 1980, it’s still not ideal. At this rate, it would take a
woman an extra 44 days of work to earn what a man does in one
year. However, it’s not all bad news. In 2015, young women saw
a smaller pay gap than average, earning $0.90 for every dollar
that their male counterparts earned. This still isn’t perfect—but
it’s definitely better. So why, at this point in the twenty-first
century, is there a pay gap at all between men and women?
Experts identify several possible reasons:

Looking forward, there is hope for even more improvement.
According to a recent Pew Research Center study, 77% of women
and 63% of men believe “this country needs to continue making
changes to give men and women equality in the workplace.” 8

AJR_photo/Shutterstock.com

▪▪ Women are more likely than men to either reduce hours or
take time off to care for a child or another family member.
▪▪ Women are overrepresented in lower paying occupations
and underrepresented in higher paying occupations.
▪▪ Last but not least, gender discrimination may play a role.

women step out of the workforce early—usually to raise children, start their own companies, or pursue other interests. As
a result, we are experiencing a harmful, ongoing brain drain.
Human resource managers can help mitigate this issue by
implementing specific retention plans for valued women
workers and by taking proactive steps to reintegrate returning women back into the workforce.9
15-2f

Work–Life Balance

Over the past decade, workers across all ages and both
­genders have actively pursued more flexibility and work–life
balance in their jobs. But as the recession deepened in 2009,
companies began to cut back on these initiatives, describing
them as “nice to have” programs in a time when “need to have”
goals—such as meeting payroll each month—are tough to
attain. Middle-level managers are also apt to demonstrate
bias against worker flexibility, even when top management
actively supports work–life balance programs. In spite of
these issues, insightful HR managers try hard to offer enough
flexibility to keep their best workers without jeopardizing
their company’s business goals.10
15-2g

Lawsuits

Frivolous lawsuits cost American
businesses over $865 billion
per year.
— PA C I F I C RE S E A R C H I N S T I T U T E

the lawsuits are legitimate—some profoundly important—
a good number are just plain silly. But even if a lawsuit is
frivolous, and even if it’s thrown out of court, it can still cost
a company millions of dollars. Even more importantly, a
frivolous lawsuit can cost a business its reputation. Avoiding employee lawsuits by knowing the law and encouraging legal practices is a growing human resources challenge.

15-3

15-3a

The United States has become a wildly litigious society, with
employees, customers, and shareholders levying lawsuit
after lawsuit against firms of all sizes. Even though many of

HUMAN RESOURCES
MANAGERS: CORPORATE
BLACK SHEEP?
The Problem

The human resource management function is clearly critical, but human resources departments—and the people
who work in them—face major challenges. Leading-edge

CHAPTER 15: Human Resource Management: Building a Top-Quality Workforce
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

273

EXHIBIT 15.1

JOB DESCRIPTION AND JOB SPECIFICATIONS: BAND MANAGER

Job Description

Job Specifications

Work with the music group to help make major decisions ­regarding
the creative and business direction of the band

A bachelor’s degree in music management

Negotiate recording contracts and engagement fees

A minimum of three years’ experience managing a high-profile band

Help band members understand their rights and ­responsibilities

Excellent communication and networking skills

firms expect every department to offer “big picture,” strategic contributions that boost company value. But a report in
Fast Company suggests that most HR professionals lack sufficient strategic skills. Among other data, the report quotes
a respected executive at a top U.S. company: ­“Business
acumen is the single biggest factor that HR p
­ rofessionals
11
in the U.S. lack today.”
But even highly qualified, strategically focused HR
managers face daunting perception problems. A management professor at a leading school comments that “The
best and the brightest just don’t go into HR.” Once in the
workforce, many employees see the human resources department as irrelevant—or even worse, as the enemy. This
perception clearly undermines their effectiveness.
15-3b

The Solution

To gain respect from both senior management and their
peers, human resources executives must earn a seat at
the table. The first step is to know the company. What
are the strategic goals? Who is the core customer? Who
is the competition? Respected HR departments typically
figure out ways to quantify their impact on the company
in dollars and cents. They determine how to raise the
value of the firm’s human capital, which in turn increases
the value of the firm itself. Effective HR people also remain open to exceptions even as they enforce broad
company policies.
But clearly, these solutions will work only if senior
management recognizes the potential value of effective
human resource management. One simple test of
job analysis The examination
of specific tasks that are assigned
senior management comto each position, independent of
mitment is the reportwho might be holding the job at
ing relationship. If the HR
any specific time.
department reports to
job description An
the CFO, it may be on the
explanation of the responsibilities
fast track to outsourcing.
for a specific position.
But if the HR department
job specifications The
reports to the CEO, the
specific qualifications necessary to
strategic possibilities are
hold a particular position.
unlimited.

274

15-4

HUMAN RESOURCE PLANNING:
DRAWING THE MAP

Great human resource management begins with great planning: Where should you go? And how should you get there?
Your objectives should flow from the company’s master
plan, and your strategies must reflect company priorities.
One of the first steps in the HR planning process
should be to figure out where the company stands in
terms of human resources. What skills does the workforce already have? What skills does it need? A companywide job ­analysis often goes hand in hand with evaluating the current workforce. Job analysis examines what
exactly needs to be done in each position to maximize the
effectiveness of the organization—independent of who
might be holding each job at any specific time. Smaller
companies often handle job analysis on an informal basis, but larger companies typically specify a formal job
descrip­tion and job specifications (or “specs”).
A job description defines the jobholder’s responsibilities, and job specs define the qualifications for doing the job.
Consider the job of band manager. The job description might
include finding engagements for the band and settling disputes among band members. The job specs might include
the type of education and experience required. Taken together, the two might look something like Exhibit 15.1.
The next step is to forecast future human resource requirements. The forecasting function requires a deep understanding of the company’s goals and strategies. HR managers
must also assess the future supply of workers. Assessing supply can be a real challenge, since the size and quality of the
workforce shift continually. But key considerations should
include retirement rates, graduation rates in relevant fields,
and the pros and cons of the international labor market.
A complete HR plan—which falls under the company’s strategic planning umbrella—must cover each core
area of human resource management (see Exhibit 15.2):
■■

Recruitment

■■

Selection

■■

Training

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

■■

Evaluation

■■

Compensation

■■

Benefits

■■

Separation

15-4a

Exhibit 15.2

Human Resource Management

Recruitment: Finding the Right People

Finding people to hire is easy—especially when the unemployment rate is high—but finding qualified employees is almost always a daunting challenge. The U.S. Census
Bureau points out that a college degree typically doubles
earning power, and the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
attests that most of the fastest-growing fields in the next
five years will require college graduates. But only one-third
of adults in America ages 25–29 have a college degree.
And as highly trained, highly educated baby boomers hit
retirement, HR recruiters may face a hiring crunch. In addition to finding qualified hires, recruiters also must find new
employees who fit with the company culture in terms of
both personality and style.12
New employees come from two basic sources: internal and external. Internal recruitment involves
transferring or promoting employees from other positions
within the company. This approach offers several advantages:
■■

Boosts employee morale by reinforcing the value of
experience within the firm

■■

Reduces risk for the firm, since current employees have
a proven track record

■■

Lowers costs of both recruitment and training

rkl_foto/Shutterstock.com

But companies often find that they don’t have the right
person within their organization. The firm may be too small,
or perhaps no one has the right set of skills to fill the immediate needs. Or maybe the firm needs the fresh thinking and

Job fairs are a popular external recruitment
tool for companies looking to hire large
numbers of entry-level employees.

energy that can come only from outside. When this is the
case, companies turn to external recruitment.
External recruitment, or looking for employees outside
the firm, usually means tapping into a range of different
resources. The possibilities include employment websites,
newspaper ads, job fairs, trade associations, college and
university employment centers, and employment agencies. But the most promising source of new hires may be
referrals from current employees. A growing number of organizations offer their current employees a cash bonus—
typically $1,000 to $2,000—for each person they refer to
the company who makes it past a probationary period. As
an added benefit, employees who come through referrals
have an excellent chance at
success, since the person
internal recruitment The
who recommended them
process of seeking employees
has a stake in their progress.
who are currently within the firm
Employee-referral programs
to fill open positions.
also represent a real bargain
external recruitment The
for employers, compared to
process of seeking new employees
the average cost per new
from outside the firm.
hire of more than $4,000.

CHAPTER 15: Human Resource Management: Building a Top-Quality Workforce
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

275

Not surprisingly, a higher level of employee referrals correlates to a higher level of shareholder returns, although lack
of diversity may become a long-term problem with relying
on employee referrals.13
15-4b

Selection: Making the Right Choice

Once you have a pool of qualified candidates, your next
step is to choose the best person for the job. This, too,
is more easily said than done, yet making the right selection is crucial. The costs of a bad hire—both the
direct costs such as placing ads, and the intangibles such
as lost productivity and morale—can drain company resources. A typical selection process includes accepting applications, interviewing, testing, checking references and
background, and making the job offer. Keep in mind that
small businesses often follow a more streamlined process.

“More than 70% of HR managers
say that employee referral job
candidates get high priority
in job searches.”
— LO S A N G E L E S T I M E S

behaviors and experiences that are key for the new position.
Consider the following examples of how these questions
could be worded:
■■

Describe a time when you had to think “outside the
box” to find a solution to a pressing problem.

■■

Describe a situation that required you to do a number
of things at the same time. How did you handle it?
What was the outcome?

■■

If you realized that a coworker was cheating on his
expense report, how would you handle the situation?

■■

What would you do if your boss asked you to
complete a key project within an unreasonable time
frame?

Applications Many companies use written applications
simply as an initial screening mechanism. Questions about
education and experience will determine whether a candidate gets any further consideration. In other words, the application is primarily a tool to reject unqualified candidates,
rather than to actually choose qualified candidates.

Interviews Virtually every company uses interviews as
a central part of the selection process. In larger companies,
the HR department does initial interviews and then sends
qualified candidates to the hiring manager for the actual
selection. The hiring manager usually recruits coworkers to
participate in the process.
Although employers frequently give interviews heavy
weight in hiring decisions, interviews often say surprisingly
little about whether a candidate will perform on the job. Too
many managers use the interview as a get-to-know-you session rather than focusing on the needs of the position. To
help ensure that interviews better predict performance, experts recommend a structured interview process: developing a list of questions beforehand and asking the same
questions to each candidate. The most effective questions
are typically behavioral: they ask the candidate to describe a
situation that he or she faced at a previous job—or a hypothetical situation at the new job—and to explain the resolution. Interviewers should gear the specific questions toward

structured interviews
An interviewing approach that
involves developing a list of
questions beforehand and asking
the same questions in the same
order to each candidate.

276

Cultural differences also affect interview performance.
As the U.S. labor pool becomes more diverse, even domestic companies must be aware of cultural differences. And it
isn’t simply a matter of legality or ethics. Firms that hire the
best people regardless of cultural background will gain a
critical edge in our increasingly competitive world.
Most colleges and universities offer comprehensive
career services. Especially in today’s competitive labor
market, you would be wise to visit your career center early
in your college career and use those services to prepare
yourself for a smooth transition into the workforce.

Testing Either before or after the interview process (and
sometimes at both points), a growing number of companies have instituted employment testing of various sorts.
The main categories include skills testing, personality testing, drug testing, and physical exams. Skills testing and
personality testing carry a fair amount of legal risk, since
these tests must measure skills and aptitudes that relate directly to the job itself.
Virtually 100% of Fortune 500 companies
“External hires get paid
conduct pre-employment drug testing,
18–20% more than staff
as do most other companies. Physical
promoted from within.”
exams are also standard but are highly
regulated by state and federal law to
— M AT T H E W B I D W E L L ,
ensure that firms don’t use them just to
WHARTON BUSINESS SCHOOL
screen out certain individuals.

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

O O P S! W H AT W E R E T H E Y T H I N K I N G ?
Interview Gaffes: The Top Ten Things NOT to Do
As you get ready to interview for your dream job, you’ll
almost certainly find yourself awash in a torrent of advice
from family and friends, and flooded with tips found on the Web
and elsewhere. “Don’t be late, don’t be early . . . Don’t ask too
many questions, don’t ask too few . . . Don’t look too casual, don’t
look too stuffy . . . . And whatever you do, never let anyone see that
you’re nervous!” But however you actually feel—and whatever
you actually say—take heart from knowing that you probably
won’t top these real-life interview blunders pulled from the
annual CareerBuilder survey of employers and hiring managers:
1. Candidate said her hair was perfect when asked why she
should become part of the team.
2. Candidate sang to a song on the radio playing overhead.
3. Candidate invited interviewer to dinner afterward.

References and Background Checks Even if you
feel absolutely certain that a candidate is right for the job,
don’t skip the reference check before you make an offer.
Research from the Society for Human Resource Managers suggests that more than 50% of job candidates lie on
their résumé in some way. Although it may be tough to
verify contributions and accomplishments at former jobs,
it’s pretty easy to uncover lies about education, job titles,
and compensation. And it’s quite worthwhile, given that
the costs of bringing an unethical employee on board can
be staggering. Furthermore, if you happen to hire a truly
dangerous employee, you can open the door to negligenthiring lawsuits for not taking “rea­sonable care.” But surprisingly—despite the high risk—employment expert James
Challenger estimates that only about 25% of candidates are
thoroughly vetted by the companies that consider them.15

Job Offers After you find the right person, the next hurdle is to design the right job offer and get your candidate
to accept it. To hook an especially hot contender, you may
need to get creative. A phone call from top management,
the royal treatment, and special perks go a long way, but
most superb candidates also want to know in very specific
terms how their contributions would affect the business.
And no matter how excited you are about your candidate, be certain to establish a probationary period up
front. This means a specific time frame (typically three to
six months) during which a new hire can prove his or her
worth on the job. If everything works out, the employee

4. Candidate stated that if the interviewer wanted to get to
heaven, she would hire him.
5. Candidate ate crumbs off the table.
6. Candidate answered cell phone and asked the interviewer to
leave her own office because it was a “private” conversation.
7. Candidate told the interviewer he wouldn’t be able to stay with
the job long because he thought he might get an inheritance if
his uncle died—and his uncle “wasn’t looking too good.”
8. Candidate asked the interviewer for a ride home after the
interview.
9. Candidate for an accounting position said she was a
“people person,” not a “numbers person.”
10. Candidate flushed the toilet while talking to the interviewer during a phone interview.14

will move from conditional to permanent status; if not, the
company can fire the employee fairly easily.

Contingent Workers Companies that experience
a fluctuating need for workers sometimes opt to hire
contingent workers—or employees who don’t expect regular, full-time jobs—rather than permanent, fulltime workers. Specifically, contingent employees include
temporary full-time workers, independent contractors,
on-call workers, and temporary agency or contract agency
workers. As a group, contingent workers accounted for
just over 40% of U.S. employment in 2010—up from 30%
in 2005.16
Employers appreciate contingent workers because
they offer flexibility, which can lead to much lower costs.
But the hidden downside can be workers who are less
committed and less experienced. Too much reliance
probationary period A
specific time frame (typically three
on contingent workers
to six months) during which a new
could unwittingly sabotage
hire can prove his or her worth on
company productivity and
the job before he or she becomes
the customer experience.
permanent.
Also, contingency workers
contingent workers
tend to suffer from signifiEmployees who do not expect
regular, full-time jobs, including
cantly higher poverty rates,
temporary full-time workers,
meaning that they are more
independent contractors, and
likely to face the damaging
temporary agency or contract
conditions that typically acagency workers.
company poverty.17

CHAPTER 15: Human Resource Management: Building a Top-Quality Workforce
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

277

T raining and Development:
Honing the Competitive Edge

For successful companies in virtually every field, training
and development have become an ongoing process rather
than a one-time activity. Even in a recession, training and
development must gather speed for companies and individuals to maintain their competitive edge. Experts offer
five key reasons that relate directly to a healthy bottom line:
1. Increased innovation in strategies and products
2. Increased ability to adopt new technologies
3. Increased efficiency and productivity
4. Increased employee motivation and lower
employee turnover
5. Decreased liability (e.g., sexual harassment lawsuits)
Training programs take a number of different forms,
from orientation to skills training, to management development, depending on the specific employee and the
needs of the organization.

Orientation Once you hire new employees, orientation should be the first step in the training and development process. Effective orientation programs typically
focus on introducing employees to the company culture
(but without sacrificing need-to-know administrative
information). Research consistently shows that strong
orientation programs significantly reduce employee turnover, which lowers costs.
The Boeing aerospace company has mastered the art
of employee orientation. Boeing Military Aircraft and Missile
Systems revamped its orientation process to include mentoring, meetings with senior executives, and an after-work social program. One highlight
of the orientation—meant
orientation The first step in
to crystallize the “wow” factor
the training and development
of working at Boeing—is the
process, designed to introduce
employees to the company culture
chance to take the controls
and provide key administrative
of an F/A-18 fighter plane
information.
flight simulator. Manageon-the-job training A
ment rightfully sees the protraining approach that requires
gram as a chance to develop
employees to simply begin their
“future leaders … the ones
jobs—sometimes guided by more
who will make sure that Boeexperienced employees—and to
learn as they go.
ing continues to be a great
place to work.”18
apprenticeships Structured
training programs that mandate
that each beginner serve as an
assistant to a fully trained worker
before gaining full credentials to
work in the field.

278

On-the-Job Training
On-the-job training is
popular because it’s very
low-cost. Employees simply

begin their jobs—sometimes under the guidance of more
experienced employees—and learn as they go. For simple
jobs, this can make sense, but simple jobs are disappearing
from the U.S. market due to the combined impact of offshoring and technology. On-the-job training can also compromise the customer experience. Have you ever waited much
too long in a short line at the grocery store because the clerk
couldn’t figure out how to use the cash register? Multiplied
across hundreds of customers, this kind of experience undermines the value of a company’s brand.
Formal apprenticeship programs tend to be a more effective way of handling on-the-job training. Apprenticeship programs mandate that each beginner serve as an
assistant to a fully trained worker for a specified period of
time before gaining full credentials to work in the field. In
the United States, apprenticeships are fairly common in
trades such as plumbing and bricklaying. But in Europe,
apprenticeships are much more common across a wide
range of professionals, from bankers to opticians.

Off-the-Job Training Classroom training happens away from the job setting but typically during work
hours. Employers use classroom training—either on-site
or off-site—to teach a wide variety of topics from new
computer programming languages, to negotiation skills,
to stress management, and more. Going one step further
than classroom training, some employers train workers
off-site on “real” equipment (e.g., robots) similar to what
they would actually use on the job. This approach is called
“vestibule training.” Police academies often use vestibule
training for firearms. Job simulation goes even further than
vestibule training, by attempting to duplicate the exact
conditions that the trainee will face on the job. This approach makes sense for complex, high-risk positions such
as astronaut or airline pilot.

ESB Professional/Shutterstock.com

15-4c

On-the-job training often works best for
relatively simple jobs.

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Training Computerbased training—mostly delivered via the
Web—now plays a crucial role in off-thejob training. Broadband technology has
turbocharged audio and visual capabilities,
which support engaging and interactive
online training programs. Online training also standardizes the presentation
of the material, since it doesn’t depend on
the quality of the individual instructor.
And the Web helps employers train employees wherever they may be in the
world, at their own pace and convenience. But there is a key drawback:
Eva n Lor ne/ Shu tte
rst ock .co m
it takes a lot of discipline to complete
an online program, and some people simply learn better
through direct human interaction.

trained in providing relevant, honest, objective feedback, and that workers at every
level know how to respond if they believe
their appraisal is not fair.
Both giving and receiving evaluations
tend to be awkward for everyone involved,
and unfortunately, uncomfortable people
tend to make mistakes. As you read the
following list, you’ll probably find that
you’ve been on the receiving end of at
least a couple of the most common appraisal goofs.

Computer-Based

Management Development As the bulk of toplevel U.S. executives move toward retirement (or lose their
jobs in the recession), developing new leaders has become a priority in many organizations. Management
development programs help current and potential executives develop the skills they need to move into leadership positions. These programs typically cover specific
issues that the business faces but also less-tangible—yet
equally important—topics, such as communication, planning, business-analysis, change-management, coaching,
and team-building skills.
15-4d

E valuation: Assessing Employee
Performance

Straightforward, frequent feedback is a powerful tool
to improve employee performance. The best managers
provide informal feedback on a constant basis so that
employees always know where they stand. But most
companies also require that managers give formal feedback through periodic performance appraisals,
usually every six months or once a year. Typically, managers conduct the appraisals by sitting down with each
employee on a one-to-one basis and comparing actual
results to expected results. The performance appraisal
affects decisions regarding compensation, promotions,
training, transfers, and terminations.
The HR role in performance appraisals begins with
the strategic process of creating evaluation tools that
tie directly into the company’s big-picture objectives.
Then, on a day-to-day basis, HR coordinates the actual
appraisal process, which typically involves volumes of
paperwork. HR must also ensure that managers are

1. Gotcha! Too many managers use
the performance appraisal as a
chance to catch employees doing something wrong
rather than doing something right.
2. The Once-a-Year Wonder Many companies mandate annual reviews, but some managers use that as
an excuse to give feedback only once a year.
3. Straight from the Gut Although “gut feel” can
have real value, it’s no substitute for honest, relevant documentation of both expectations and
accomplishments.
4. What Have You Done for Me Lately? Many managers give far too much weight to recent accomplishments, discounting the early part of the review
period.
5. The “Me Filter” While appraisals are a bit subjective
by their very nature, some managers filter every comment through their personal biases. Here are some
examples:
■■

 ositive Leniency: “I’m a nice guy, so I give everyP
one great scores.”

■■

 egative Leniency: “I have high expectations, so
N
I give everyone low scores.”

■■

Halo Effect: “I like
this employee, so I’ll
give her top scores
across the board.”

For a performance appraisal to be effective, the
manager must focus on fairness, relevance, objectivity,
and balance. Equally important, the manager should
give feedback on a continual
basis to eliminate surprises
and maximize performance.

management development
Programs to help current and
potential executives develop
the skills they need to move into
leadership positions.

performance appraisal A
formal feedback process that
requires managers to give their
subordinates feedback on a
one-to-one basis, typically by
comparing actual results to
expected results.

CHAPTER 15: Human Resource Management: Building a Top-Quality Workforce
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

279

15-4e

Compensation: Show Me the Money

The term compensation covers both pay and benefits,
but when most people think about compensation, they
think about cash. Yet your paycheck is only part of the picture. Many companies also offer noncash benefits such as
healthcare, which can be worth up to 30% of each employee’s pay. Researching, designing, and managing effective compensation systems are core HR functions.
From a company perspective, compensation—both
cash and noncash—represents a big chunk of product
costs, especially in labor-intensive businesses such as
banks, restaurants, and airlines. Although many firms opt
to cut labor costs as far as possible, others boost compensation above the norm to find and keep the best workers.
In fact, research suggests that companies offering higherthan-average compensation generally outperform their
competitors in terms of total return to shareholders—both
stock price and dividend payouts.19
Regarding specific individuals and positions, companies typically base compensation on a balance of the following factors:
■■

Competition: How much do competing firms offer
for similar positions?

■■

Contribution: How much does a specific person
contribute to the bottom line?

■■

Ability to Pay: How much can the company afford?

■■

Cost of Living: What would be reasonable in light of
the broader local economy?

■■

Legislation: What does the government mandate?

The most common compensation systems in the
United States are wages and salaries. Wages refer to pay
in exchange for the number of hours or days that
compensation The
an employee works. Variacombination of pay and benefits
tions can be huge, starting
that employees receive in
exchange for their work.
at the federal minimum
wage of $7.25 per hour (as
wages The pay that employees
of May 2017) and ranging
receive in exchange for the
number of hours or days that they
up to more than $50 per
work.
hour. Jobs that require less
education—such as flipsalaries The pay that
employees receive over a fixed
ping burgers—typically pay
period, most often weekly or
hourly wages. Federal law
monthly.
requires companies to pay
benefits Noncash
nonexempt wage earners
compensation, including
overtime, 50% more than
programs such as health
their standard wage, for
insurance, vacation, and
every hour worked over
childcare.
40 hours per week.

280

EXHIBIT 15.3 PERFORMANCE PAY OPTIONS
Variable Pay
System

Description

Commission

Commission involves payment as a percentage of sales. ­Usually, larger commissions go
with smaller base pay.

Bonuses

Bonuses are lump-sum ­payments, typically to reward strong performance from
­individual employees.

Profit Sharing

Profit-sharing plans reward ­employees with a
share of ­company profits above and ­beyond
predetermined goals.

Stock Options

Stock options are the right to buy shares
of company stock at some future date for
the price of the shares on the day that the
company awarded the options.

Pay for
Knowledge

This approach involves awarding bonuses
and pay increases in exchange for increases
in ­knowledge such as earning an MBA.

Salaries, on the other hand, cover a fixed period,
most often weekly or monthly. Most professional, administrative, and managerial jobs pay salaries. While salaries are
usually higher than wages, salaried workers do not qualify
for overtime, which means that sometimes a low-level
manager’s overall pay may be less than the pay of wagebased employees who work for that manager.

Pay for Performance In addition to wages and salaries, many organizations link some amount of worker pay
directly to performance. The idea is to motivate employees
to excel. Exhibit 15.3 lists some common approaches.
As you look over the range of variable pay options,
which would you find most motivating? Why? What type
of business might use each form of variable pay? Why?
15-4f 
Benefits: From Birthday Cakes

to Death Benefits

Benefits represent a significant chunk of money for
employers, but for many years, workers took benefits for
granted. No longer. As the unemployment rate skyrocketed
in 2009, employees began to appreciate their benefits
more than ever, recognizing that healthcare, dental care,
paid sick days, retirement plans, and other perks add
enormous value to their paychecks—and can be yanked
at the discretion of their employer.20
In fact, a number of budget-minded employers already stick to the legally mandated basics: Social Security
and Medicare contributions, payments to state unemployment and workers’ compensation programs, and job

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Come Back, Come Back, Wherever You Are!
enjoy their jobs far more than on-site employees do, let’s hope
that IBM is not spurring a new trend with this move.21

protection per the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act.
However, socially responsible employers—and companies
that seek a competitive advantage through a top-notch
workforce—tend to offer far more. Optional benefits usually include some or all of the following:

place—out of fear that they would appear less committed
to their jobs.23

■■

Paid vacation days and holidays

■■

Paid sick days

■■

Health insurance

■■

Retirement programs

■■

Product discounts

A smaller number of companies also offer less traditional benefits such as backup childcare options, free
massage, pet health insurance, tuition reimbursement,
and paid time off for volunteering. Since the recession of
2009, companies that offered “extras” have focused extra
attention on perks that would boost morale without an
outrageous price tag.22
In the past decade, a growing number of companies have begun to offer cafeteria-style benefits.
This approach involves giving their employees a set dollar amount per person that they must spend on company
benefits. The key to these plans is choice, which allows
employees to tailor their benefits to their individual needs.
Over the past couple of decades, employees across
the U.S. economy have demanded more flexibility from
their employers, and companies have responded. Flexible scheduling options include flextime, telecommuting,
and job-sharing plans, discussed in detail below. But unfortunately, as massive, widespread layoffs swept across
the economy in 2009, workers began to give up flexible
schedules—or to stop even asking about them in the first

Blend Images/Shutterstock.com

In 2017, International Business Machines (IBM) dismantled its
extensive employee telecommuting program. The company
gave thousands of remote employees a choice: relocate to
a regional office—sometimes hundreds of miles from their
homes—or leave the company. The policy change was a
rude shock to many employees because IBM was an early
adopter of telecommuting and an outspoken advocate of
its effectiveness—once boasting that more than 40% of its
employees worked outside of traditional company offices. IBM
defended the decision as a strategy to improve collaboration
and accelerate the pace of work. Rebuilding the design and digital
marketing teams in-house, it said, would allow the company
to respond quickly to real-time data and customer feedback.
However, because telecommuting employees report that they

Flextime A flextime plan gives workers some degree of
freedom in terms of when they start and finish their workday, as long as they complete the required number of hours.
Typically, companies with flextime scheduling oblige their
employees to start work between mandated hours in the
morning—say, anytime between 7 a.m. and 10 a.m.—to take
lunch between certain hours in the middle of the day, and
to complete work at the end of eight hours. This approach
ensures that everyone is present during core hours for communication and coordination, but it provides choice outside
those parameters. Flextime tends to increase employee morale and retention, but it makes less sense in jobs that entail
extensive teamwork and customer interaction. It also requires careful management
to avoid abuse.
cafeteria-style benefits
An approach to employee benefits
The
compressed
that gives all employees a set
workweek, another verdollar amount that they must
sion of flextime scheduling,
spend on company benefits,
allows employees to work a
allocated however they wish
within broad limitations.
full-time number of hours
in less than the standard
flextime A scheduling option
workweek. The most poputhat allows workers to choose
when they start and finish their
lar option is to work four
workdays, as long as they complete
ten-hour days rather than
the required number of hours.
five eight-hour days. Major
compressed workweek A
companies, such as Intel,
version of flextime scheduling
have developed successful
that allows employees to work a
compressed workweek profull-time number of hours in less
grams at a number of their
than the standard workweek.
facilities.

CHAPTER 15: Human Resource Management: Building a Top-Quality Workforce
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

281

EXHIBIT 15.4  AN ANALYSIS OF TELECOMMUTING
Organization

Benefits

Drawbacks

■■ Lower costs for office space, equipment, and upkeep

■■ Greater challenges maintaining a ­cohesive company

■■ Higher employee productivity due to better morale,

fewer sick days, and more focused performance
■■ Access to a broader talent pool (not everyone needs to

be local)

Employee

culture
■■ Greater challenges fostering teamwork
■■ Greater challenges monitoring and ­managing far-flung

employees

■■ Much more flexibility

■■ Less fast-track career potential

■■ Zero commute time (less gas money)

■■ Less influence within the organization

■■ Better work–family balance

■■ Weaker connection to the company culture

■■ Every day is casual Friday (or even pajama day!)

■■ Isolation from the social structure at work

■■ Fewer office politics and other distractions
Source: Flexible Hours and Telecommuting—Not the Ticket to the Top of Corporate America, Five Questions for Susan DePhillips, Workforce Management, September 2005, http://www.workforce.com/section/02
/article/24/14/66.html.

Telecommuting Despite clear benefits for employees, the environment, and many employers, telecommuting has not fully permeated the American workplace.
Booming technological advances make it possible for
many employees to “commute” to the office via phones,
fax machines, and broadband networks. More than 60%
of companies allow telecommuting, and 20–30%
of Americans telecommute at least occasionally. The
bottom-line benefits for companies that embrace the
approach can be significant. Over two-thirds of employers report increased productivity among their telecommuters. Telecommuting employees are 35–40% more
productive than their office-bound colleagues. And direct savings from decreased costs add up fast, as well. By
establishing telecommuting programs, employers can
realize annual cost savings of $20,000–$37,000 per employee, which adds up to hundreds of millions of dollars
each year for big players. In fact, if every worker who could
telecommute did so just half the time, the economic benefit would total more than $700 billion a year. Businesses
would increase national productivity by 5 million humanyears, or $270 billion worth of work. The nation would save
almost 90,000 people from traffic-related injury or death.
Accident-related costs would be reduced by more than
$10 billion a year. And greenhouse gases would decrease
by 54 million tons—the equivalent of taking almost
10 million cars (the entire New York State workforce) off
the road for a year.24
While telecommuting
telecommuting Working
sounds great at first glance,
remotely—most often from
it offers benefits and drawhome—and connecting to the
backs for organizations and
office via phone lines and/or
employees alike, as you’ll
broadband networks.
see in Exhibit 15.4.

282

Job Sharing Job sharing allows two or more employees to share a single full-time job. Typically, job-share
participants split the salary equally, but they often need
to allocate full benefits to just one of the partners. On a
nationwide basis, fewer than 20% of employers (e.g.,
American Express, PricewaterhouseCoopers, and some
departments of the U.S. federal government) offer jobsharing programs and reap the benefits such as higher
morale and better retention.25
15-4g 
Separation: Breaking Up Is Hard to Do
Employees leave jobs for a number of different reasons.
Experiencing success, they may be promoted or lured
to another firm. Experiencing failure, they may be fired.
Or in response to changing business needs, their employer might transfer them or lay them off. And employees also leave jobs for completely personal reasons
such as family needs, retirement, or a change in career
aspirations.
When companies terminate employees, they must
proceed very carefully to avoid wrongful-termination
lawsuits. The best protection is honesty and documentation. Employers should always document sound business
reasons for termination and share those reasons with the
employee.
But employees can still lose their jobs for reasons that
have little or nothing to do with their individual performance. In response to the recession, employers eliminated
5.1 million jobs between December 2007 and March 2009.
And while the economy regained its footing by 2015, many
experts anticipate that it will not fully rebound for many
years. As companies have become leaner, the remaining
workers have experienced enormous stress. Managers can

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

What Your Boss REALLY Thinks of Your Tattoo
Noble. Ninety-four percent of people with tattoos would
hire someone with tattoos, so as ink
becomes more common in the
workplace, tattoo-based discrimination may soon be a thing of
the past.26

mitigate the trauma most effectively by showing empathy
and concern for their employees, and by treating any laidoff employees with visible compassion.27

national origin. Over time, Congress has supplemented
Title VII with legislation that prohibits discrimination based
on pregnancy, age (40+), and ­disability.
Title VII also created the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission (EEOC) to enforce its
provisions. And in 1972, Congress beefed up the EEOC
with additional powers to regulate and to enforce its mandates, making the EEOC a powerful force in the human
resources realm.
Here are some additional key pieces of employment
legislation:
Civil Rights Act of 1964
■■ Fair Labor Standards

15-5

LEGAL ISSUES: HR AND THE
LONG ARM OF THE LAW

Even when the company is right—even when the company wins—employment lawsuits can cost millions of
dollars and deeply damage the reputation of an organization, as we briefly discussed earlier in this chapter. To avoid
employment lawsuits, most firms rely on HR to digest the
complex, evolving web of employment legislation and
court decisions, and to ensure that management understands the key issues.
The bottom-line goal of most employment legislation is to protect employees from unfair treatment by
employers. Some would argue that the legislation goes
so far that it hinders the ability of companies to grow. But
regardless of your personal perspective, the obligation of
an ethical employer is to understand and abide by the law
as it stands—even if you’re working within the system to
change it.
The most influential piece of employment law may
be the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Title VII of this
act—which applies only to employers with 15 or more
workers—outlaws discrimination in hiring, firing, compensation, apprenticeships, training, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment based on race, color, ­religion, sex, or

FXQuadro/Shutterstock.com

It doesn’t really matter what your boss thinks of your tattoo—
as long as your boss can’t see your tattoo. But as climate
change brings warmer temperatures, keeping your tattoo
covered up may not always be an option, even if you are so
inclined. Even in an age of relaxed attitudes about tattoos, this
may pose a problem in the mainstream workplace. About 29%
of the population (and 47% of millennials) sport at least one
tattoo. However, 37% of HR managers cite tattoos as the third
most likely physical attribute to limit career potential (behind
bad breath and non-traditional piercings). There are currently
no laws protecting people with tattoos from discrimination
in the hiring process, but it’s not all bad news if you’re forced
(or you choose) to show your ink. A number of top companies
are known for being tattoo friendly, including Whole Foods,
Google, Trader Joe’s, Target, Home Depot, and Barnes &

Act of 1938: Established a minimum wage
and overtime pay for
employees ­working
more than 40 hours a
week.
■■

Equal Pay Act of 1963:
Mandated that men and
women doing equal
jobs receive equal pay.

■■

Occupational Safety
and Health Act
of 1970: ­Required
safety equipment for
employees and established maximum exposure limits for hazardous
substances.

Federal legislation that prohibits
discrimination in hiring, firing,
compensation, apprenticeships,
training, terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment based on
race, color, religion, sex, or national
origin.

Title VII A portion of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 that prohibits
discrimination in hiring, firing,
compensation, apprenticeships,
training, terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment based
on race, color, religion, sex, or
national origin for employers
with 15 or more workers.

Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission
(EEOC) A federal agency
designed to regulate and enforce
the provisions of Title VII.

CHAPTER 15: Human Resource Management: Building a Top-Quality Workforce
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

283

About 12 workers are killed on
the job in the United States
every day.
— O C C U PAT I O N A L S A F E T Y A N D H E A LT H
A D M I N I S T R AT I O N

■■

Immigration Reform and Control Act of
1986: Required employers to verify employment
eligibility for all new hires.

■■

Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990:
Prohibited discrimination in hiring, promotion, and
compensation against people with disabilities and
required employers to make “reasonable” accommodations for them.

■■

Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993: Required
firms with 50 or more employees to provide up to
12 weeks of job-secure, unpaid leave on the birth or
adoption of a child or the serious illness of a spouse,
child, or parent.

15-5a

 ffirmative Action: The Active
A
Pursuit of Equal Opportunity

The term affirmative action refers to policies meant to
increase employment and educational opportunities for
minority groups—especially groups defined by race, ethnicity, or gender. Emerging during the American civil rights
movement in the 1960s, affirmative action seeks to make
up for the systematic discrimination of the past by creating
more opportunities in the present.
Over the past couple of dec­ades, affirmative action
has become increasingly controversial. Opponents have
raised concerns that giving preferential treatment
affirmative action Policies
to some groups amounts
meant to increase employment
and educational opportunities
to “reverse discrimination”
for minority groups—especially
against groups who do not
groups defined by race, ethnicity,
get the same benefits. They
or gender.
claim that affirmative action
sexual harassment
violates the principle that
Workplace discrimination against a
all individuals are equal unperson based on his or her gender.
der the law. But supporters

284

counter that everyone who benefits from affirmative action must—by law—have relevant and valid qualifications.
They argue that proactive measures are the only workable way to right past wrongs and to ensure truly equal
opportunity.
Recent U.S. Supreme Court decisions have supported
affirmative action, pointing out that government has a
“compelling interest” in ensuring racial diversity. But the
Court has rejected “mechanistic” affirmative action programs that amount to quota systems based on race, ethnicity, or gender.
The long-term fate of affirmative action remains
unclear, but achieving the underlying goal—a diverse
workplace with equal opportunity for all—stands to benefit both business and society as a whole.

Sexual Harassment:
15-5b 

Eliminating Hostility

Sexual harassment—which violates Title VII of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964—involves discrimination against
a person based on his or her gender. According to
the EEOC, sexual harassment can range from requests
for sexual favors to the presence of a hostile work
environment. The EEOC also points out that a sexual
harasser may be either a woman or a man, and the
harasser doesn’t need to be the victim’s supervisor.
The victim could be anyone affected—either directly
or indirectly—by the offensive conduct. And clearly,
to qualify as sexual harassment, the conduct must be
unwelcome. The total number of sexual harassment
charges filed with the EEOC in the past decade dropped
27% from 2001 to 2011. Interestingly, the number of
charges filed by men rose from 13.7% to 17.1% in 2015,
but dropped to 16.6% in 2016.28
Not just the perpetrator is liable for sexual harassment;
employers may share accountability if they did not take
“reasonable care” to prevent and correct sexually harassing behavior, or if they did not provide a workable system
for employee complaints. Simply adopting a written policy
against sexual harassment is not enough. Taking “reasonable care” also means taking proactive steps—such as
comprehensive training—to ensure that everyone in the
organization understands (1) that the firm does not tolerate sexual harassment and (2) that the firm has a system
in place for complaints and will not tolerate retaliation
against those who complain.29

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

THE BIG PICTURE
Effective human resource management can
create an unbeatable competitive edge—a
fair, productive, empowering workplace pays off in bottom-line
results. In good times, one core HRM goal is to find, hire, and
develop the best talent. While that function remains crucial in
tough economic times, the focus changes to managing HR costs

while maintaining morale. Looking forward, a growing number
of firms will most likely outsource traditional HR tasks such as
payroll and benefits administration to companies that specialize
in these areas. HR departments could then focus on their core
mission: working with senior management to achieve business
goals by cultivating the firm’s investment in human resources.

CAREERS IN HUMAN RESOURCES
Human Resources Manager
Plan, organize, lead, and coordinate the personnel, or labor
relations activities of an organization. Identify staff vacancies
and recruit, interview, and select applicants, ensuring a strong
match between personnel and positions. Establish, maintain, and
implement a competitive pay and benefit structure, and insure that

STUDY TOOLS

policies remain in compliance with federal, state, and local laws.
Establish and conduct employee orientation and training programs.
Provide current and prospective employees with information about
company policies, pay, benefits, and promotional opportunities.
Counsel and coach management as necessary on human resources
issues. Maintain accurate human resources records. Keep current
regarding professional and technical knowledge.

15

LOCATED AT BACK OF THE TEXTBOOK
■■

Rip-Out Chapter Review Card

■■

Gain unique perspectives on key concepts with new concept
videos in the e-book
Increase your comprehension with online homework and
quizzes

■■

■■

Study with existing flashcards and make your own

CHAPTER 15: Human Resource Management: Building a Top-Quality Workforce
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

285

16

Managing Information
and Technology:

Finding New Ways to Learn and Link

LEARNING OBJECTIVES
After studying this chapter, you will be able to:
16-1 Explain the basic elements of computer technology—including hardware, software, and

16-2 Discuss the reasons for the increasing popularity of cloud computing
16-3 Describe how data become information and how decision support systems can provide

high-quality information that helps managers make better decisions
16-4 Explain how Internet-based technologies have changed business-to-consumer and

Remember to visit

PAGE 305
for additional

STUDY TOOLS

business-to-business commerce
16-5 Describe the problems posed by the rapid changes in Internet-based technologies,

and explain ways to address these problems

16-1

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY: EXPLOSIVE CHANGE

Over the past few decades, computer and communications hardware
and software have changed dramatically. The capabilities of hardware
have increased by orders of magnitude. In the late 1950s, for example,
you would have needed fifty 24-inch disks—costing tens of thousands of
dollars—to store 5 megabytes of data. Today you can buy a flash memory
device, about the same size as a postage stamp, that stores 128 gigabytes of
data—over 24,000 times more than that whole 1950s disk array—for under
$30. And in terms of processing power and performance, Apple’s iPad Pro,
which performs nearly 5 billion mathematical operations per second, is
not only faster than multimillion dollar super computers from the 1990s,
it runs 10 hours on its battery and can be controlled via dictation, easy-tolearn touch screen commands, or the Apple Pencil, which can be used for
handwritten notes and creating incredibly detailed drawings.1 While more
difficult to quantify with specific statistics, it’s also clear that software has
become more powerful, more flexible, and easier to use.
286

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Rus S/Shutterstock.com

networks—and describe key trends in each area

Perhaps an even more important development than the
increased power of hardware and sophistication of ­software
is the degree to which today’s technology is linked by
networks. These networks allow businesses to coordinate
their internal functions, reach their customers, and collaborate with their suppliers and partners in ways that could
not have been envisioned a quarter of a century ago. Networks have not only improved the efficiency and effectiveness of existing businesses, they’ve also opened up entirely
new business opportunities. Pancreatic cancer often moves
from stage I to stage IV in just a year. Because it grows so
quickly and aggressively, it is often detected too late for
surgical treatment. Just 25% of patients with untreatable
pancreatic cancer survive after one year, and only 4% survive after five years.2 However, by examining search logs
mentioning pancreatic cancer (“I was just diagnosed with
pancreatic cancer”) on Microsoft’s Bing.com search engine
and then working backward to see if the same people
had previously searched for information associated with
symptoms of pancreatic cancer, researchers were able to
identify 5% to 15% of people who later self-identified with
the disease. Dr. Eric Horvitz, a study author, said, “We asked
ourselves, ‘If we heard the whispers of people online, would

“The Internet? Is that thing still
around?”
—HOMER SIMPSON

it provide strong evidence or a clue that’s something’s going
on?’”3 The hope is that web search data might result in early
detection, life-saving treatment, and higher survival rates.
Of course, these new linkages pose challenges and threats
as well as benefits and opportunities. A quarter of a century
ago, people hadn’t heard of computer viruses, spyware,
phishing, or spam (except for the Hormel meat product
variety). Over the course of this chapter, we’ll take a look at
both sides of this rapidly changing story.
16-1a

Hardware and Software

Hardware refers to the
physical components used
to collect, input, store, and
process data, and to display
and distribute information.
This hardware includes

hardware The physical tools
and equipment used to collect,
input, store, organize, and
process data and to distribute
information.

CHAPTER 16: Managing Information and Technology: Finding New Ways to Learn and Link
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

287

system software Software
that performs the critical functions
necessary to operate the computer
at the most basic level.

applications software
Software that helps a user
perform a desired task.

Internet The world’s largest
computer network; essentially a
network of computer networks
all operating under a common
set of rules that allow them to
communicate with each other.

288

Applications software is software that helps

users perform a desired
task. Horizontal applications
software, such as word processing, spreadsheet, and
personal information management software, is used
by many different businesses and occupations.
Vertical applications software is designed for a specific industry or profession.

ProStockStudio/Shutterstock.com

the ­various components of a computer system as well
as communications and network equipment. Examples
include barcode scanners, hard drives, printers, routers,
and smartphones.
Software refers to the programs that provide
instructions to a computer so that it can perform a
desired task. There are two broad categories of software:
system ­software and application software. Both types of
software have used the tremendous increase in hardware
capabilities to become more powerful and easier to use.
System software performs the critical functions
necessary to operate a computer at the most basic level.
The fundamental form of system software is the operating
system, which controls the overall operation of the computer.
It implements vital tasks, such as managing the file system,
reading programs and data into main memory, and allocating
system memory among various tasks to avoid conflicts.
Operating system software also provides the interface that enables users to interact with their computers.
Early operating systems required users to type complex
commands with very precise syntax to carry out tasks
such as running programs or opening, saving, or deleting
files. If you made an error while typing a command, your
computer would just sit there until you typed the correct
command. Today’s operating systems are much simpler
and more intuitive. The graphical user interface (or GUI—
pronounced “gooey”) allows users to enter commands by
clicking on icons on the computer screen or by tapping or
swiping them on devices with a touch screen.
Utility programs supplement operating system
software in ways that increase the security or abilities
of the computer system. Examples include firewalls,
antivirus software, and antispyware programs. Over the
years, operating systems
have incorporated many
software Programs that
features that were originally
provide instructions to a
provided by such utility
computer so that it can perform a
desired task.
programs.

For many, the Internet is as much a
social experience as it is an informationgathering one.

For example, brokerage firms have special software that
allows them to transact business on the stock exchanges,
and product designers have computer-aided design (CAD)
software that enables them to produce technical drawings
in three dimensions.
16-1b

Networks

Today, most firms (and households) use networks that
allow users to communicate with each other and share
both files and hardware resources. A network links
computer resources, using either a wired or wireless
connection. Firms usually want to prevent outsiders from
obtaining access to their networks for privacy and security
reasons, but they sometimes allow customers or suppliers
partial access to their private networks to strengthen their
relationships with these important stakeholders.

The Internet and the World Wide Web The
development and growth of the Internet is one of
the great networking stories of the past two decades. The
Internet is often referred to as the world’s largest computer
network. It’s actually a network of networks, consisting
of hundreds of thousands of smaller networks operating
under a common set of protocols (rules) so that they can
communicate with each other.
One common way to experience the Internet is through
the World Wide Web. But while the Internet ­supports the
Web and provides access to it, only about 5% of the traffic
on the Internet in North America involves the Web. Other
traffic includes, but isn’t limited to, real-time entertainment
(70%) like Netflix, YouTube, and Amazon Prime streaming;
marketplaces (7.2%) like eBay and iTunes; video and audio

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Exhibit 16.1

Growth in Broadband and Smartphone Internet Access
100%

95%

92%
90
Percentage of American Adults (Cell Phones &
Smartphones) and Households (Broadband)

84%

83%

80
73%

70
65%

60

88%

87%
81%

70%
63%

58%

55%

50
47%

59%

45%

42%
35%

33%

30

67%

66% 66%
62%

73 %

69%

66%

62%

91%
77%

75%

67%

40

89%

24%

20
16%
10
0

11%
3%

Cell phone

Smartphone

Broadband

6%

’00 ’01 ’02 ’03 ’04 ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16
Year
J. Horrigan and M. Duggan, “Home Broadband 2015,” Pew Research Center, December 21, 2015, http://www.pewinternet.org/2015/12/21/home
-broadband-2015/, accessed April 1, 2016; “Demographics of Internet and Home Broadband Usage in the United States,” Pew Research Center,
January 12, 2017, http://www.pewinternet.org/fact-sheet/internet-broadband/, accessed February 11, 2017.

communication (5%) like Skype; gaming services (4.3%) like
Xbox Live and PlayStation Network; and social networking (3.9%) like Facebook.4 Still, the Web is an incredibly rich
environment; it consists of more than 46.7 billion pages of
documents—the number grows every second—written and
linked together using Hypertext Markup Language (HTML).5
The increased availability of broadband and wireless
Internet connections have fueled the popularity of Internet
applications. A broadband Internet connection has
the capacity to transmit large amounts of data very quickly,
allowing users to quickly download large files such as music, games, and movies. A survey by the Pew Internet and
American Life Project, summarized in Exhibit 16.1, found
that access to broadband Internet connections grew
rapidly over the last two decades. As Exhibit 16.1 shows,
only 1% of American adults had access to high-speed
Internet at home in 2000, but by 2016 that figure
had climbed to 73%.6 Exhibit 16.1 also shows that while
95% of Americans have cell phones, 77% now have
smartphones with fast cellular Internet service, up from
35% in 2011.7 (It’s worth noting that 10% of Americans
who have smartphones do not have home broadband.)8

From a business perspective, the growth in high-speed
Internet access via broadband and smartphones allows
companies to offer richer, more interactive experiences to
customers who visit their websites or use their apps, no
matter where they’re located.
But even today’s broadband connections are too
slow and inefficient for many business and scientific
applications. Such projects often require high-definition
video and audio files to be
shared among multiple
broadband Internet
sites at the same time.
connection An Internet
Beginning in 1996, several
connection that is capable of
leading research univertransmitting large amounts of
sities, corporations, and
information very quickly.
other organizations formed
Internet2 (I2) A new
a coalition to create a new
high-tech Internet with access
limited to a consortium of
generation of Internet
member organizations (and other
technology in the United
organizations these members
States based on fiber-optic
sponsor). I2 utilizes technologies
cable. The resulting netthat give it a speed and capacity far
work became known as
exceeding the current Internet.
Internet2 (or “I2”).

CHAPTER 16: Managing Information and Technology: Finding New Ways to Learn and Link
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

289

Access to I2 was initially limited to dues-paying members
of the Internet2 consortium, which today consists of over 317
major universities as well as 29 non-profit organizations, 83
leading high-tech corporations, 64 government agencies, 43
research and educational networks, and 65 international organizations.9 But under an initiative begun in 2001, members
of the I2 consortium can sponsor access to the network for
other research and educational organizations that otherwise
would be unable to qualify for membership. This initiative has
given many elementary schools, high schools, community
colleges, libraries, and museums access to I2 resources.10
Internet2 isn’t simply a faster way to surf the Web
or send email. In fact, such routine uses of the current

I­nternet aren’t even allowed. Instead, it is a noncommercial network that uses high-speed connectivity to improve
education, research, and collaboration. Member organizations see Internet2 as a way to bring together their researchers, scientists, and engineers at various locations in
a way that allows real-time collaboration on complex and
important topics. It also allows corporations to collaborate with other companies, universities, and organizations
located thousands of miles apart. One of the missions of
the Internet2 consortium is to “facilitate the development,
deployment and use of revolutionary Internet technologies.”11 So, the benefits of Internet2 will eventually become
commonplace on the Internet that the rest of us use.

Exhibit 16.2

Igloo Software Intranet

290

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Have You Been Pwned?
If founder and CEO of Facebook Mark Zuckerberg can be hacked,
you can, too. Hackers breached Zuckerberg’s LinkedIn, Twitter,
and Pinterest accounts, across which he allegedly used the same
password: “dadada.” Online security consultant Graham Cluley
said, “It shows it can happen to anyone—even geeks.”
Zuckerberg found out about the infiltration when the hackers
tweeted him saying, “We are just testing your security.” Since
hackers probably won’t be contacting you, how can you find out
when one of your accounts has been hacked?

(235 million), LinkedIn (165 million), Adobe (152 million), and
Badoo (112 million).
Have you been pwned? Probably. Check on HIBP. If so, use a
password manager like LastPass (https://www.lastpass.com)
to generate and store long, unique, randomly generated
passwords for all of your accounts, and change key passwords
every six months.
Be smart. Don’t get pwned.12

F8 studio/Shutterstock.com

One way is to use Have I Been Pwned? (HIBP, https://haveibeenpwned.com), a free website operated by Australian-born
Microsoft security expert Troy Hunt. (“Pwned,” an intentional
misspelling of the word “owned,” is slang for being defeated or
embarrassed.) So far, HIBP has data from 191 pwned websites
containing 2.1 billion user accounts. To check whether one or
more of your accounts has been pwned, simply enter your email
address or user name. HIBP shows whether your emails are
associated with hacked accounts.
Hunt started HIBP after Adobe accounts were compromised
and the hackers began selling email addresses and passwords.
Says Hunt, “There is a massive trade in stolen data.” The top
five breaches thus far are MySpace (359 million), NetEase

Intranets and Extranets An intranet is a private
network that has the same look and feel as the Web and
uses the same web browser software to display documents,
but limits access to the employees of a single firm (or members of a single organization). When properly implemented,
intranets enhance communication and collaboration
among employees and provide an effective way to distribute
information and applications throughout the organization.
Employees can usually log onto their company’s intranet
from remote locations using password-protected Internet
access, allowing them to use company resources when
working on the road or from home from home. Exhibit 16.2
illustrates an example from Igloo Software, a leading provider
of intranet software. On this screen, employees can find
team members, communicate with them via social chat or
Slack (a team communication tool), read and share news,
see what activities are taking place, access and share files,
and see what’s coming up on the team calendar.
Firms sometimes also create extranets by giving
key stakeholders, such as suppliers or customers, limited
access to certain areas of their intranet. Extranets enable
firms to provide additional services and information to
their external stakeholders. For example, the firm might

allow customers to check on the status of their order, or
suppliers to check on the state of the firm’s inventory to
plan shipments of parts and materials.
16-1c The Role of the IT Department
Many business organizations have an information technology (IT) department to manage their information resources.
But the role of this department varies significantly from one
company to another. In some firms, the IT department plays a
strategic role, making and implementing key decisions about
the technologies the firm will
use. In other organizations,
intranet A private network
the role of IT is largely opthat has the look and feel of
erational; managers in functhe Internet and is navigated
using a web browser, but
tional departments make
which limits access to a single
the key decisions about the
firm’s employees (or a single
computer and information
organization’s members).
resources their areas need,
extranet An intranet that
and the IT department
allows limited access to a selected
simply maintains these regroup of stakeholders, such as
sources and provides technisuppliers or customers.
cal support to employees.

CHAPTER 16: Managing Information and Technology: Finding New Ways to Learn and Link
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

291

CLOUD COMPUTING: THE SKY’S
THE LIMIT!

In most companies, employees use applications and access
data stored on their own computers or their companies’
servers. But “cloud computing” is challenging that approach.
Cloud computing means using Internet-based storage
capacity, applications, and processing power to supplement
or replace internally owned computer resources.
You’re already familiar with consumer-focused cloud
computing services if you backup, organize, and share your
photos on Google Photos; store your music on Apple’s iCloud
storage services; or use a service like Dropbox or Google Docs
to access and share documents and files. These services clearly
offer significant benefits, such as the ability to store large files
without taking up valuable space on your computer’s hard
drive and the convenience of being able to access your documents, music, and photos from anywhere via any computer
or mobile device with an Internet connection.
Until recently, most businesses were reluctant to embrace cloud computing, citing concerns about security and
reliability. But that is changing. Two studies by global consulting company McKinsey & Co. indicate that while 77% of
large companies now manage their own IT equipment and
services in-house, this figure is expected to drop to 43% in
2018 as companies move to the cloud. McKinsey concludes,
“More large enterprises are likely to move workloads away
from traditional and virtualized environments toward the
cloud—at a rate and pace that is expected to be far quicker
than in the past.”13
And for many organizations, moving to the cloud may
actually increase data security. AWS (Amazon Web Services)
is Amazon.com’s quick, reliable IT backbone. But Amazon
also sells the use of its AWS services to external companies.
In fact, AWS has grown so quickly that it is now the world’s
largest provider of IT cloud services. AWS CEO Jason Anders
says, “What’s happened over the last three to four years is
that most companies have figured out that they can have a
much stronger security posture in AWS and the cloud than
they can on-premises, because we’re able to employ a lot
more people to focus on security.”14 More specifically, the
cloud offers to its users the ability to:

“There are only two industries
that refer to their customers as
‘users.’”
— E D WA R D T U F T E , S T A T I S T I C I A N

Violetkaipa/Shutterstock.com

16-2

If you share photos on Facebook, store
your music on Apple’s iCloud storage
services, or use Dropbox to access and
share documents and files, you’re already
using cloud computing.
than a century ago publishing its “big green
books,” provides a comprehensive registry of U.S.
manufacturers. Thomas moved its data online in
2006, running its own data centers and services. But
now, Thomas is moving everything to AWS’s cloud.
Chief Technical Officer Hans Wald explains, “We want
to be out of the business of running data centers.”15
■■

Allow lower costs and excess capacity by only paying for the computer resources they need or use.
When Conde Nast, the travel publisher, moved all of
its data online, data costs dropped by 40%.16

■■

Encourage collaboration among employees and
­business partners. Cloud resources aren’t confined to
a specific platform or operating system, so it is easy
for people using different computer systems to share
files and programs. In addition, many cloud-based
applications include tools specifically designed to
facilitate collaboration.

■■

Take advantage of incredible gains in processing speed
via massively parallel computing that simultaneously

■   Access a vast array of

cloud computing The use
of Internet-based storage capacity,
processing power, and computer
applications to supplement
or replace internally owned
information technology resources.

292

computing resources
without the need to invest heavily in expensive
new hardware, software,
and IT personnel. Thomas
Publishing Co., which
got its start more than

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

combines the processing power of hundreds (or even
thousands) of computers. By combining computing
power, data processing projects can be completed in
70–80% less time. For example, DNA2.0, using cloud
computing and specialized software, can analyze
and count the number of cells in 50,000 microscope
images in just two years, a task that would have taken
a team of scientists ten years to complete.17

“To err is human_and to blame it
on a computer is even more so.”
—ROBERT ORBEN, COMEDY WRITER
AND SPEECHWRITER

Typically, today’s businesses store their data in

16-3

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
AND DECISION MAKING:
A CRUCIAL AID

One of the vital functions of information technology—at
least in relationship to business—is to transform data into
useful information for decision makers. In order to make
decisions, managers must have information about the
current state of their business, their competitive environment, and the trends and market conditions that offer new
opportunities. Where does this information come from?
How can it be made more useful? How can managers
process the information to make better decisions?
16-3a

Data and Information

Let’s start by distinguishing between data and information. Data are the facts and figures a firm collects. Data in
their raw form have limited usefulness because they lack
the context needed to give them meaning. Data become
information when they are processed, organized, and
presented in a way that makes them useful to a decision
maker. Sometimes firms can obtain useful information
from external sources, but sometimes they must create
information by processing their own data. Given today’s
competitive environment, the speed with which managers obtain good-quality information can be a crucial competitive advantage.
Internally, every department of an organization
generates facts and figures that the firm must store and
track. Every time a financial transaction is completed,
for example, the firm’s accounting system must record
the specific accounts affected. Similarly, a firm’s human
resources department must enter new data every time
an employee is hired, fired, promoted, changes jobs,
or retires. Firms must also keep track of the names, addresses, and credit information of each customer. This
is hardly a complete list, but you get the picture; firms
must store mountains of data and convert them into
useful information.

databases, which are files of related data organized according to a logical system and stored on hard drives or
some other computer-accessible storage media. It isn’t
unusual for a company to have many different databases,
each maintained by a different department or functional
area to meet its specific needs. For example, the human
resources department might have a database of employee
pay rates, and the marketing department may have another database of customer history.
Once all these data are stored, the firm must convert
them into information. One common method is to query
a database. A query is a request for the database management software to search the database for data that match
criteria specified by the user. Suppose, for instance, that a
marketing manager plans to introduce a product upgrade.
She can enter a query that asks for the email addresses of
all customers who have purchased the product in the past
year. She can use this information to send a targeted email
message, promoting the upgrade to the customers who
are most likely to buy it.
16-3b

Characteristics of Good Information

We’ve seen that businesses have many sources of information. But not all information is of good quality. High-quality
information is:
■■

Accurate: It should be free of ­errors and biases.

■■

Relevant: It should
focus on issues that are
important to decision
makers.

■■

■■

■■

Timely: It should be
available in time to
make a difference.
Understandable: It must
help the user grasp its
meaning.
Secure: Confidential
information must be
secure from ­hackers
and competitors.

data Raw, unprocessed facts
and figures.
information Data that
have been processed in a way
that make them meaningful to
their user.

database A file consisting
of related data organized
according to a logical system
and stored on a hard drive or
some other computer-accessible
media.

CHAPTER 16: Managing Information and Technology: Finding New Ways to Learn and Link
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

293

to Improve Decision Making

A company’s information technology (IT) department
frequently works closely with managers throughout the
organization to support decision making. In fact, many
companies develop decision support systems
(DSS) that give managers access to large amounts of
data and the processing power to convert the data into
high-quality information quickly and efficiently. Over
the past two decades, a new class of decision support
system has evolved to take advantage of the dramatic
increase in data storage and processing capabilities.
Called business intelligence systems, these systems help businesses discover subtle and complex relationships hidden in their data. Such systems can be
a source of competitive advantage for the businesses
that develop them. Freight rail companies, which ship
40% of goods nationwide, use business intelligence systems to predict problems before they become safety issues. For example, a freight train can derail when one or
more of the eight steel wheels on one of its freight cars
breaks, possibly causing a massive loss of life and property. Every year, an average of 400 train wheels break,
creating the possibility for 400 disasters. But with 12 million freight train wheels on 1.5 million freight rail cars
in the United States, there is less than a 0.0033 percent
chance of predicting when and where a wheel could
break. Thanks to business intelligence systems,
decision support system
freight rail companies are
(DSS) A system that gives
frequently able to predict
managers access to large amounts
when a steel wheel needs
of data and the processing power
fixing or replacing. As a reto convert these data into highquality information, thus improving
sult, the accident rate for
the decision-making process.
freight trains has dropped
business intelligence
80% since 1980 and 45%
system A sophisticated form
since 2000.18
of decision support system that
One of the most
helps decision makers discover
common
approaches to
information that was previously
implementing a business
hidden.
intelligence system is to
data warehouse A large,
create a data warehouse
organization-wide database that
stores data in a centralized location.
and use data mining to
discover unknown relationdata mining The use of
ships. A data warehouse
sophisticated statistical and
mathematical techniques to
is a very large, organizationanalyze vast amounts of data
wide database that proto discover hidden patterns
vides a centralized location
and relationships, thus creating
for storing data from both
valuable information.
the organization’s own

294

databases and external sources. Why do companies need
data warehouses? Because smart phones alone generate
18 exabytes of data each month. How big is that? An exabyte is 1,000 petabytes, which is 1,000 terabytes, which is
1,000 gigabytes. Most of us can conceptualize a gigabyte
because of the gigabytes of storage on our smartphones,
tablets, laptops, and gaming platforms.19 Scott Dietzen is
CEO of Pure, which makes data storage systems capable
of holding five times more information than conventional
technology. Dietzen says that the amount of data recorded
today is so overwhelming that “[n]o one can look at all their
data anymore; they need algorithm just to decide what to
look at.”20
Data mining uses powerful statistical and mathematical techniques to analyze vast amounts of data to
identify useful information that had been hidden. In recent years, data mining has had considerable success in
areas as diverse as fraud and crime detection and quality
control and scientific research. New York City’s Human
Resources Administration used data mining to identify
$46.5 million in fraudulent welfare claims, up 60% from
before. Commissioner Steven Banks says data mining “allows us to zero in on likely fraud so we don’t divert resources to finding what otherwise might be a needle in
a haystack.”21
16-3d

Expert Systems

Managers who use decision support systems usually already know quite a bit about the problem and how they

Sergey Nivens/Shutterstock.com

16-3c Using Information Technology

An expert system helps managers make
better decisions by asking a series of
questions until enough information is
gathered to reach a decision.

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

want to solve it. They just need access to the right data
and a system to “crunch the numbers” in a way that provides relevant, accurate, and timely information to help
them make their decisions. But what happens when the
problem is beyond the expertise of the manager? One
way to deal with this problem is to set up an expert
system (ES) to guide the manager through the decision-making process.
To develop expert systems, programmers ask experts in the relevant area to explain how they solve
problems. They then devise a program to mimic the
expert’s approach, incorporating various rules or guidelines that the human expert uses. The finished program
will ask a user a series of questions, basing each question
on the response to the previous question. The program
continues to ask questions until it has enough information to reach a decision and make a recommendation.
Doctors at a large New York hospital system use an expert system to help determine if a coughing patient has
pneumonia. The expert system asks the doctor whether
the patient “has a fever and rapid heart rate,” and if the
doctor hears, “a ‘crackle’ in the lungs.”22 High scores indicate immediate treatment, while low scores suggest
pneumonia isn’t the issue.
Expert systems routinely solve problems in areas as
diverse as medical diagnoses, fraud detection, and consumer credit evaluation. The troubleshooting systems that
many companies have on the customer-support pages of
their websites are another type of expert system. If your
product doesn’t work, the troubleshooter will ask a series
of questions designed to diagnose the problem and suggest solutions. Based on your responses to each question,
the system selects the next question as it starts narrowing
down the possible reasons for the problem until it identifies the cause and offers a solution. Often you can solve
your problem without waiting on hold to talk to a human
expert over the phone.23
Despite impressive results in many fields, expert systems have their limitations. Programming thousands of
decision rules into the system can be time-consuming,
complicated, and expensive. In fact, it’s sometimes impossible because the experts themselves can’t clearly
explain how they make their decisions—they just “know”
the answer based on their years of experience. If the experts can’t clearly explain how they reach their conclusions, then programmers can’t include the appropriate
decision rules in the system. Finally, an expert system has
little flexibility and no common sense. It probably won’t
be able to find a solution to a problem that deviates in
any significant way from the specific type of problem it
was programmed to solve.24

16-4 INFORMATION

TECHNOLOGY AND

THE WORLD OF E-COMMERCE

Over the past 20 years, advances in information technology have had a dramatic and widespread effect
on how companies conduct their business. But in this
chapter, we’ll just concentrate on one key area: the
growth and development of e-commerce.
E-commerce refers to marketing, buying, selling,
and servicing of products over a network (usually the
Internet). You’re probably most familiar with businessto-consumer (B2C) e-commerce. You participate
in this form of e-commerce when you purchase songs
from iTunes, use Expedia to make travel arrangements,
or buy stocks through an online broker such as Charles
Schwab. However, business-to-business (B2B)
e-commerce, which consists of markets where businesses sell supplies, components, machinery, equipment, or services to other businesses, actually accounts
for a much larger volume of e-commerce.
While both B2C and B2B involve exchanging goods
over the Internet, they differ in some important ways, as
shown in Exhibit 16.3. Given these structural differences, it
isn’t surprising that the two markets operate so differently.
While B2B and B2C are the most obvious forms of
e-commerce, they aren’t the only forms. For example, inC2C
(consumer-to-consumer) e-commerce, consumers buy from
and sell to other consumers—think eBay and Craigslist. And
in B2G (business-to-government), e-commerce businesses
sell information, goods, and s­ ervices to government agencies.
16-4a Using Information Technology in

the B2C Market

Firms in the B2C market
use information technology in a variety of ways. In
this section, we’ll describe
how firms use technology
in general (and the Internet
in particular) to attract new
customers and strengthen
the loyalty of existing
customers.

Web 2.0 One major goal
for most firms today is to
develop stronger relationships with their customers.
The Internet has proven
to be an excellent tool for

expert system (ES) A
decision support system that helps
managers make better decisions in
an area where they lack expertise.

e-commerce The marketing,
buying, selling, and servicing of
products over a network (usually the
Internet).
business-to-consumer
(B2C) e-commerce
E-commerce in which businesses
and final consumers interact.

business-to-business
(B2B) e-commerce
E-commerce in markets where
businesses buy from and sell to
other businesses.

CHAPTER 16: Managing Information and Technology: Finding New Ways to Learn and Link
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

295

EXHIBIT 16.3 KEY DIFFERENCES BETWEEN B2C AND B2B E-COMMERCE
B2C

B2B

Type of Customers

Individual final consumers

Other businesses

Number of Customers
in Target Market

Very large

Often limited to a few major business customers

Relatively small (usually a few dollars to a few hundred
Size of Typical
­Individual Transaction dollars)

Potentially very large (often several ­thousand dollars,
sometimes several ­million dollars)

Customer Behavior

May do some research, but many ­purchases may be based
on impulse.

Usually does careful multiple ­research and compares
vendors. May take bids.

Complexity of
­Negotiations

Purchase typically involves little or no ­negotiation. Customer
usually buys a standard product and pays the listed price.

Often involves extensive negotiation over specifications,
delivery, ­­installation, ­support, and other issues.

Nature of Relationship with Customers

Firm wants to develop customer loyalty and repeat business
but seldom ­develops a close working ­relationship with
­individual customers.

Buyers and sellers often ­eventually develop close and
long-lasting relationships that allow them to coordinate
their activities.

fostering such relationships—though it took a while for
businesses to discover the best way to do so. In the early
days of e-commerce, most companies tried to maintain
tight control over the content presented on their websites.
These websites presented information about products and
allowed customers to place orders for goods and services,
but offered little opportunity for user participation or involvement. However, by the early years of the twenty-first
century, innovative businesses were developing ways to
make e-commerce more interactive and collaborative. In
doing so, they not only forged stronger relationships with
the customers who posted this content, they also created
a richer, more interesting, and more useful experience for
others who visited the site. This new approach became
known as Web 2.0.
Many Web 2.0 sites rely on users (or members) to
provide most of their content. For instance, the online
encyclopedia Wikipedia uses wiki software to allow users
to comment on and contribute to its articles. And social
networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter wouldn’t
exist without user-created material. The more users who
participate on these sites, the more useful (and entertaining) they become—and the easier it is for them to attract
even more visitors and contributors.
Interestingly, many companies have found that techniques used to encourage collaboration among their
customers can be used to
accomplish the same reWeb 2.0 Websites that
sult with their employees.
incorporate interactive and
Major corporations such as
collaborative features to create a
HP, Wells Fargo, and Procter
richer, more interesting, and more
& Gamble now use Web 2.0
useful experience for their users.
techniques to help their

296

own employees work more effectively together. The use
of Web 2.0 technologies within organizations is called Enterprise 2.0.25

Advertising on the Internet Many B2C companies
have large target markets, so advertising is an important part of their marketing strategy. Internet advertising
revenue grew rapidly in the early twenty-first century,
increasing almost fourfold from 2002 to 2008. It dropped
slightly in early 2009 (as did most types of advertising
expenditures during the onset of the recession) but began
rising again later that year.
By the end of 2009, it surpassed magazine advertising revenue for the first time, and in 2016 it increased
to an estimated $70 billion. Annual Internet advertising
revenues now exceed those from broadcast and cable TV,
newspapers, radio, and magazines. Banner ads generated
10% of all Internet advertising revenues; ads placed on
pages containing search results (such as those you see on
Google or Bing) accounted for 27% of revenues; and for
the second consecutive year, ads targeting mobile devices
such as tablets and smartphones led the pack, generating
30% of Internet ad revenues.26
Firms in B2C markets also use opt-in email as an
advertising medium. Opt-in emails are messages that
the receiver has explicitly chosen to receive. Customers
often opt in when they register their products online and
click to indicate that they would like to receive product
information from the company. Since the customer has
agreed to receive the message, opt-in emails tend to
reach interested consumers. And, because email requires
no envelopes, paper, or postage, it’s much less expensive
than direct mail.

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Hacking, Fraud, App Authing, and
Tokenization: What You Need to Know
From malware to spyware, viruses, worms, spam, phishing, pharming, and SMiShing, Section 16-5 of this chapter
explains how hackers can break into your email, online accounts, and other sources of data. Here are two more hacking
methods, as well as ways to counter or prevent them.
App Authing: Letting Hackers in the Side Door
Ryan Holmes is CEO of Hootsuite, a firm that helps companies manage all of their social media marketing in one place.
Holmes’ Twitter account was hacked, but not by stealing his Twitter username and password. Holmes and his security
team believe hackers got in via Foursquare, another social media app he had authorized to connect to his Twitter account
(so that his Foursquare posts would automatically post to Twitter). App authorizations, which drive traffic and automatic
cross-platform postings, are widely used. Holmes explains, “Most social platforms have multiple points of access through
partner services—just think of how many apps, from Airbnb to WordPress, integrate into Facebook, for instance.”
What’s the solution? Go into your settings and revoke app authorizations for accounts you no longer use and for those
with recent security issues. Don’t let hackers in the “side door.”
Chip and PIN Credit Cards Produce Surge in Online Credit Card Fraud
Thanks to chip and PIN credit cards (which require users to enter secret numbers into credit card scanners), credit card
fraud in stores (known as “card present” transactions) is decreasing. On the other hand, online credit card fraud (“cardnot-present” transactions) is up to 15%.
Tokenization, the use of one-time purchase codes, is an effective way to reduce online credit card fraud. Apple Pay, for
example, uses secure fingerprint scanners on iPhones and iPads to authenticate your purchase approval. This is done
on the device, not online, so it can’t be hacked. Then, a one-time code or token is sent authorizing funds. Retailers—and
hackers—never see your credit card, just the one-time token.
Tokenization has been possible in many brick-and-mortar and online stores for several years.
But now, it also works on personal computers. Clicking the Apple Pay or Android Pay
button in your computer’s web browser securely prompts a fingerprint scan
on your phone. When you scan your fingerprint, a secure token is sent to the
retailer and the purchase on your computer’s web
browser is approved.
How long will revoking app authorizations and
tokenization work? Stephen Coggeshall, chief
analytics and science officer at identity-theft
protection company Lifelock says, “Fraud is kind
of like squeezing Jell-O. Stop it one place and it
migrates to somewhere else.”27

Viral Marketing The Internet has also proven to be an
effective medium for viral marketing, which attempts to
get customers to communicate a firm’s message to friends,
family, and colleagues. Despite its name, legitimate viral

The average American spends
50 minutes on Facebook every day.
—FACEBOOK CEO, MARK ZUCKERBERG

tuthelens/Shutterstock.com

marketing doesn’t use computer viruses. Effective viral marketing campaigns can generate a substantial increase in
consumer awareness of a product. As a strategy, viral marketing isn’t unique to the Internet; even before the World
Wide Web, marketers were
adept at buzz marketing, the
viral marketing An Internet
use of unconventional (and
marketing strategy that tries to
usually low-cost) tactics to
involve customers and others not
stimulate word-of-mouth
employed by the seller in activities
product promotion. But the
that help promote the product.
Internet has made it possible

CHAPTER 16: Managing Information and Technology: Finding New Ways to Learn and Link
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

297

A 2016 Smith & Forge ad featured an elite
athlete who disguised himself as an old
man, then showed up muscle-bound
bodybuilders at Santa Monica’s Muscle
Beach. The ad quickly went viral, gaining
more than 27 million views in 24 hours
and 54 million views in less than a week.

to implement such strategies in clever ways and reach large
numbers of people very quickly. Many viral marketing campaigns in recent years have used social media such as Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube.

Handling

Payments

Electronically B2C

e-commerce normally requires customers to pay at the
time the purchase is made. Clearly, the use of cash and
paper checks isn’t practical. In the United States, most payments in the B2C market are made by credit cards. To ensure that such transactions are secure, most sites transmit
payment information using a secure socket layer (SSL) protocol. You can tell if a site on which you’re doing business is
using SSL in two fairly subtle ways. First, the URL will begin
with https:// instead of simply http://. (Note the “s” after http
in the address.) Also, a small closed lock icon will appear
near the bottom of your
web browser (the exact locybermediary An Internetcation depends on the spebased firm that specializes in the
cific browser you are using).
secure electronic transfer of funds.
Another
common
electronic bill presentment
method
of
payment
is to
and payment A method of bill
use a cybermediary—an
payment that makes it easy for the
customer to make a payment, often
Internet-based
company
by simply clicking on a payment
that specializes in the secure
option contained in an email.
electronic transfer of funds.
e-marketplace A specialized
By far the best-known cyberInternet site where buyers and sellers
mediary is PayPal, which also
engaged in business-to-business
operates Braintree (to handle
e-commerce can communicate and
companies’ web and mobile
conduct business.
payments), Venmo (to make

298

payments to friends), and Xoom (to enable U.S. residents
to send money, reload phones, and pay bills in 56 different
countries). According to figures on its website, in 2016, PayPal
had 197 million active accounts that handled $354 billion in
annual payments in 203 countries and 100 currencies.28
There are two kinds of electronic bill
pre­sentment and payment, which is another form of
electronic payments. With biller-direct, consumers receive
email reminders and then pay their bills at the company
website. But with bank-aggregator billing, you use the
“bill-pay” service at your bank to automatically pay your
monthly bills.
16-4b Using Information Technology

in the B2B Market

B2B e-commerce generally requires a very different
approach than B2C e-commerce. Not only do B2B transactions often involve much larger sums of money and require
much more negotiation than B2C transactions, they also
often result in long-term supply chain relationships that
require close collaboration between buyer and seller. A
supply chain is the network of organizations and activities
needed to obtain materials and other resources, produce
final products, and get those products to their final users.
Forging tight and efficient supply chain relationships can
be a key competitive advantage for firms.
An effective supply chain requires close coordination between a company and its suppliers. Information technology
can provide the tools needed to foster this coordination. For
example, the extranets we mentioned earlier can allow suppliers to keep tabs on their customers’ inventories, thus anticipating when to make shipments of parts or materials.
Many firms involved in B2B business also make use of
specialized Internet sites, called e-marketplaces, which
provide a platform for businesses in specific B2B markets
to interact. These platforms generally allow buyers in the
market to solicit bids by posting requests for proposals
(RFPs) on the site. Suppliers can then respond by bidding
on RFPs that interest them.
E-marketplaces provide a number of advantages to
their participants:
■■

Compared to older methods, they reduce the time, effort,
and cost of doing business for both buyers and sellers.

■■

Because they are Internet-based, they don’t require
expensive dedicated connections between firms, so
even smaller firms can afford to participate.

■■

They enable sellers and buyers to contact and
negotiate with a large number of market participants
on the other side of the market, thus maximizing the
chances of finding good matches.

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

■■

They often provide additional services—beyond
simple trade—that allow firms to exchange information and collaborate, thus forging tighter supply
chain relationships.

“Getting information off the
Internet is like taking a drink
from a fire hydrant.”

In recent years, many firms have begun using another
information technology known as radio frequency
­identification (RFID) to improve the efficiency of their
supply chains. This technology stores information on a microchip and transmits it to a reader when it’s within range—
up to several thousand feet. The chips can be extremely
small—some are difficult to see with the naked eye—and
can be embedded in most types of tangible products. The
chips are usually powered by the energy in the radio signal
sent by the reader, so they don’t need batteries.
RFID chips can store and transmit all sorts of information, but most commonly they transmit a serial number
that uniquely identifies a product, vehicle, or piece of
equipment. This type of information can be used to help
track goods and other resources as they move through a
supply chain. Deliveries can be recorded automatically and
electronically without the need to make manual records.
The chips also can make taking inventory much quicker
and simpler, since the items in stock identify themselves to
readers. And the chips can be used to reduce the chances
of theft. The results of these advantages are lower costs
and a more efficient supply chain.
Disney World uses RFID chips in MagicBands, bracelets
that serve as park visitors’ admission tickets, hotel keys, and
credit cards at shops and restaurants. Because they contain
RFID chips, Disney can track where the park is busy and then
add more staff at those rides and restaurants. And with the
ability to shift staff precisely where they are most needed,
Disney World can now easily admit 3,000 more people to the
park each day. One example is faster food service. For instance,
after park guests Jason and Melissa McInerney entered their
lunch orders into a touch screen kiosk, the screen directed
them to sit wherever they liked. Just after they sat down at

—MITCHELL KAPOR, ENTREPRENEUR,
FOUNDER OF LOTUS DEVELOPMENT
C O R P O R AT I O N

their table, their food server brought them their sandwiches
and drinks. Thanks to the MagicBands, the kitchen and their
server knew what they ordered and where they were sitting.29

16-5

CHALLENGES AND CONCERNS
ARISING FROM NEW TECHNOLOGIES

So far, we’ve concentrated on the benefits of advances
in information technology—and it’s clear that these
benefits are enormous. But rapid technological advances also pose challenges and create opportunities for abuse. These problems affect businesses, their
customers, and their employees, as well as the general
public. In this section, we’ll look at annoyances, security
concerns, and legal and ethical issues.

vetkit/Shutterstock.com

16-5a

Malware

The Internet—for all its advantages—creates the possibility that unwanted files and programs may land on your
computer. In many cases, this happens without your knowledge, much less your permission. Some of these files and
programs are relatively benign (even useful), but others
can create major problems. Software that is created and
distributed with malicious intent is called malware (short
for “malicious software”). Spyware, computer viruses, and
worms are all examples
of malware.
radio frequency
Spyware is software
identification (RFID)
that installs itself on your
A technology that stores information
on small microchips that can transmit
computer without permisthe information when they are within
sion and then tracks your
range of a special reader.
computer behavior in some
malware A general term for
way. It might track which Inmalicious software, such as spyware,
ternet sites you visit to learn
computer viruses, and worms.
more about your interests
spyware Software that is
and habits in order to send
installed on a computer without the
you targeted ads. Or, more
user’s knowledge or permission to
alarmingly, it might log every
track the user’s behavior.
keystroke (thus capturing

CHAPTER 16: Managing Information and Technology: Finding New Ways to Learn and Link
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

299

Ransomware: Holding Your Data Hostage

Writing in the New York Times, Alina Simone
described how CryptoWall ransomware
locked down her mother’s computer:
“Your files are encrypted. To get the key
to decrypt files you have to pay 500 USD.”
If she didn’t pay within the week, the ransom would double to
$1,000. The same thing happened at Houston-based Advantage
Benefit Solutions, where ransomware spread from one computer
to the company’s file server and backup systems, encrypting the
firm’s financial and customer information. This time the ransom
note said, “Pay $400 within 72 hours to unlock the data.”
Much like other malware, ransomware can be activated by
clicking on mail attachments from unknown senders. These

passwords, account numbers, and user names to accounts
as you enter them), allowing someone to steal your identity. Some spyware even goes beyond passive watching
and takes control of your computer, perhaps sending you to
websites you didn’t want to visit.
Computer viruses are programs that install themselves on computers without the users’ knowledge or permission and spread—sometimes very rapidly—by attaching
themselves to other files that are transferred from computer
to computer. Viruses are often attached to emails, instant
messages, or files downloaded from the Internet. Some viruses are little more than pranks, but others can cause great
harm. They can erase or modify data on your hard drive, prevent your computer from
booting up, or find and send
computer virus Computer
personal information you’ve
software that can be spread from
stored on your computer to
one computer to another without
the knowledge or permission of
people who want to use it
the computer users by attaching
for identity theft. Worms are
itself to emails or other files.
similar to viruses, except that
worm Malicious computer
they are independent prosoftware that, unlike viruses, can
grams that can spread across
spread on its own without being
computer networks without
attached to other files.
being attached to other files.

300

attackers often try to make their emails look as normal as
possible, even disguising their names and their attachments.
California-based real estate agent Kevin Simpson was waiting
for a client to email him some documents when he clicked
on an email attachment that looked as if it had been sent by
Federal Express (it had not). This activated
ransomware that encrypted the data on his
PC and his company’s servers. On Apple
computers, hackers embedded ransomware
into the Transmission app, which ironically is used to encrypt sensitive files to
protect them when sending them from one
place to another. Anyone using the hacked
Transmission app found their files encrypted
and inaccessible, as well as a demand to pay $400 to regain
access to the data.
enterlinedesign/Shutterstock.com

Ransomware is a type of malware that works similarly to a traditional kidnapping—complete with a ransom demand. But instead
of kidnapping a person, ransomware takes the data on your
computer, your servers, and your systems hostage by encrypting it.
Encrypted files look like scrambled code to the computer, so while
the data are still there, they are virtually
useless. Only after paying up do you receive
a unique decryption key to unlock your files
so that they’re usable again.

Should you pay the ransom? If your backup data are current
and easily retrieved, then probably not. But many people and
firms are deciding it’s just easier to pay. Advantage Benefits
Solutions’ Mark Stefanick says, “They set the ransom so low that,
as violated as I felt and as much as I wanted to fight, at the end
of the day I realized I can pay and get back to work.”30

How can you protect yourself from spyware, viruses,
and worms? Take these commonsense steps:
■■

Perform regular backups. This can come in handy
should a virus tamper with (or erase) the data on
your hard drive. Store the backed-up data in a
separate place.

■■

Install high-quality antivirus and antispyware software, and keep it updated. (Today’s Internet security
software usually has the ability to download and
install updates automatically, but they may need to
be configured to do so.)

■■

Update your operating system regularly so that any security holes it contains are patched as soon as possible.

■■

Don’t open email messages or attachments if you
don’t know and trust the sender.

■■

Don’t download files from websites unless you are sure
they are legitimate. And be sure to read the licensing
agreement of any programs you install—especially
those of freeware you download from the Internet.
The wording of these agreements will often indicate
if other programs (such as spyware) will be installed
along with your free program.

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

16-5b

Spam, Phishing, and Pharming

Spam refers to unsolicited commercial emails, usually sent
to huge numbers of people with little regard for whether
they are interested in the product or not. It’s estimated
that 60% or more of all email traffic is spam. Some spam
messages contain malicious email attachments that download ransomware to unknowing users’ computers (see “Ransomware: Holding Your Data Hostage”).31 Spam filters are
highly effective at screening the 205 billion emails sent every
day. Google’s Gmail, for instance, claims that that only 0.1%
of spam gets past its spam filters to Gmail users. If all spam
filters were that effective (they aren’t), 205 million spam messages would still be delivered to email inboxes every day.
And unfortunately, that would mean more false positives,
whereby a spam filter wrongly screens out legitimate email
messages (Gmail’s false positive rate is 0.05%).32
The U.S. Congress enacted the Controlling the Assault
of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act (usually
called the CAN-SPAM Act) in 2003. This act requires senders
of unsolicited commercial email to label their messages as
ads and to tell the recipient how to decline further messages.
It also prohibits the use of false or deceptive subject lines in
email messages. But the rapid increase in the amount of spam
in recent years suggests this law hasn’t been an effective
deterrent.
Phishing is another common use of spam. Phishers
send email messages that appear to come from a legitimate
business, such as a bank, credit card company, or retailer. The
email attempts to get recipients to disclose personal information, such as their social security or credit card numbers, by
claiming that there is a problem with their account—or sometimes simply that the account information needs to be verified or updated. The messages appear authentic; in addition
to official-sounding language, they often include official-looking corporate logos. The email also usually provides a link to
a website where the recipient is supposed to log in and enter
the desired information. When the victims of the scam click on
this link, they go to a website that can look amazingly like the
site for the real company—but it’s not. It’s a clever spoof of the
site where the phishers collect personal information and use
it to steal identities. Exhibit 16.4 shows a highly sophisticated
phishing attack using Google’s Gmail service. A number of
Gmail users received a convincing email that looked like it was
sent from someone they knew. When the users clicked on an
attachment included with the email (in the form of a Googlelooking graphic), a new tab opened in their web browsers (Gmail is largely web-based). As Exhibit 16.4 shows, the
Gmail users were then prompted to sign into their accounts
again“to continue to Gmail.”While careful email users would
have noticed that the URL begins “data:text/html,https://
accounts.google.com” instead of “https:accounts.google.

Exhibit 16.4

Gmail Phishing Example

Source: M. Maunder, “Wide Impact: Highly Effective Gmail Phishing Technique Being
Exploited,” Wordfence, January 12, 2017, https://www.wordfence.com/blog/2017/01
/gmail-phishing-data-uri/#officialupdate, accessed February 13, 2017.

com,” many Gmail users were fooled. When they mistakenly signed into their accounts again, what they were
actually doing was giving hackers their Google account
passwords. The result was that their Gmail and Google
accounts were soon, if not immediately, compromised.33
One of the best ways to avoid such scams is to be
skeptical of email requests for personal information;
­
reputable businesses almost never ask you to divulge such
information via email. Also, never click on a link in an email
message to go to a website where you have financial
accounts—if the message is from a phisher, that link is used
to direct you to the fake site
(as in the Gmail phishing
spam Unsolicited email
attack shown in Exhibit
advertisements usually sent to
16.4) where the phishers
very large numbers of recipients,
hope that you’ll mistakenly
many of whom may have no
interest in the message.
enter your username and
password. Instead, use a link
phishing A scam in which
to the site that you’ve bookofficial-looking emails are sent
to individuals in an attempt
marked, or type in the link
to get them to divulge private
to the real site yourself.
information such as passwords,
Not content with phishusernames, and account numbers.
ing expeditions, some scam
pharming A scam that seeks to
artists have now taken to
steal identities by routing Internet
pharming. Like phishing,
traffic to fake websites.
pharming uses fake websites

CHAPTER 16: Managing Information and Technology: Finding New Ways to Learn and Link
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

301

Smartphones and Selfies: The End of the Password?

Because weak passwords are the equivalent of leaving the keys
in an unlocked car, companies are now taking the keys away by
doing away with passwords all together. For instance, Yahoo!
Mail has replaced passwords with the “Yahoo! Account Key.”
When accessing Yahoo! Mail, a notification is sent to the account

to trick people into divulging personal information. But
pharming is more sophisticated and difficult to detect than
phishing because it doesn’t require the intended victim to
click on a bogus email link. Instead, it uses techniques to redirect Internet traffic to the fake sites. Thus, even if you type in
the correct URL for a website you want to visit, you still might
find yourself on a very realistic-looking pharming site. One
way to check the validity of the site is to look for the indications that the site is secure, such as the https:// in the URL and
the small closed lock icon mentioned earlier.35
Computers aren’t the only devices plagued by these
threats and annoyances. Cell phone users are facing increasing problems with spam delivered via text messaging.
Even more alarming, some scammers have found ways to
take their phishing expeditions to cell phones—a practice
known as “SMiShing,” or SMS phishing. One typical SMiShing
ploy is to use text messaging to entice cell phone users to
visit the scammer’s fake website asking you to provide personal or financial information.36
16-5c

Hackers: Break-Ins in Cyberspace
Hackers are skilled com-

hacker A skilled computer user
who uses his or her expertise to gain
unauthorized access to the computer
(or computer system) of others,
sometimes with malicious intent.

firewall Software and/or hardware
designed to prevent unwanted access
to a computer or computer system.

302

puter users who have the
expertise to gain unauthorized access to other
people’s computers. Not all
hackers intend to do harm,
but some—called “black
hat hackers” (or “crackers”)—­
definitely have ­
malicious

owner’s smartphone asking, “Are you trying to sign in?” Because
it is assumed the account owner has his or her smartphone,
access is granted when a “yes” response is received. If the smartphone is lost or damaged, users can authenticate their identity
on pre-specified backup devices, such as their tablet or laptop.
MasterCard, however, is replacing passwords (forgotten
by more than half of its users each
week) with selfie photos. When
MasterCard’s Identity Check
system authenticates that the
picture it just received from
your phone matches the
digital photo it has of you
in its system, it okays your
MasterCard purchase.34

Rus S/Shutterstock.com

The top five most popular passwords are: 123456, password,
12345678, qwerty, and 12345 (for those who found 12345678
too complex!). With easily guessed passwords like these, often
employed by users across all of their accounts, no wonder many
online accounts now require longer passwords containing numbers,
capital letters, and special characters, along with new passwords
every six months. Ironically, those security measures, which
strengthen passwords and make them more difficult to guess or
hack, also make it more likely that users will forget their passwords
(unless they use password management software.

intent. They may attempt to break into a computer system
to steal identities or to disrupt a business.
Protecting against hackers requires individuals and businesses to be security conscious. Some of the precautions
used against hackers, such as making frequent backups, are
similar to those used to protect against viruses. Another key
to protecting against hackers is to make sure that all data
transmitted over a network are encrypted, or sent in encoded form that can only be read by those who have access to a key. Security experts also suggest that organizations
restrict access to computer resources by requiring users to
have strong passwords. According to Microsoft, strong passwords are at least 14 characters in length; include a mix of letters, numbers, and special characters; and don’t contain any
common words or personal information.37 MIT researchers
have found, however, that making passwords longer by “adding a word or two” is more effective than adding numbers or
upper case letter. Their finding is that longer passwords are
safer because they’re much more difficult to crack.38
Unfortunately, users struggle to remember strong passwords, so they reuse one or two passwords. ­“Having the same
password for everything is like having the same key for your
house, your car, your gym locker, your office,” says PayPal’s Michael Barrett. With password ­management software, such as
1Password, users memorize just one master password. 1Password works with any browser on any computer, tablet, or smartphone. It generates unique, strong passwords, synchronizes
encrypted data across devices, and autofills forms so you don’t
have to manually enter personal information or passwords.39
Firewalls are another important tool to guard
against hackers and other security threats. A firewall uses

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

JU S T BE C A U S E T HE Y C A N , DOE S N ’ T M E A N T HE Y S HOU L D
It’s Thursday afternoon. You’re off to the airport to
join your spouse on a flight for a three-day weekend.
As you come around a blind curve, you see four kids,
none older than ten, walking on the shoulder of the
road. Just as you drift toward the center line to avoid them, a
semi-truck coming in the opposite direction suddenly swerves
into your lane. What do you do? Swerve left into oncoming
traffic? Stay in your lane, head on with the truck? Swerve right
and hope you avoid the kids?

Mercedes-Benz’s head of driver assistance and safety programs,
Christoph von Hugo, says, “You could sacrifice the car, but then
the people you’ve saved, you don’t know what happens to them
after that in situations that are often very complex, so you save
the ones you know you can save. If you know you can save at
least one person, at least save that one. Save the one in the car.
If all you know for sure is that one death can be prevented, then
that’s your first priority.”40

What Do YOU Think?

This classic scenario is based on the “Trolley Problem,” in
which the driver of a runaway trolley with no brakes has two
choices: take the left track where only one person will be run
over by the trolley, or take the right track where five people
will be run over.

▪▪ If you were part of the programming team, do you
program the self-driving car to save the children?Or the car
passenger?

With self-driving cars in development, the Trolley Problem
suddenly matters a great deal to car manufacturers who must
program their cars to instantaneously make such decisions.

▪▪ What do you think of Mercedes’ subsequent clarification that
“neither programmers nor automated systems are entitled to
weight the value of human lives”?

hardware or software (or sometimes both) to create a barrier that prevents unwanted messages or instructions from
entering a computer system. As threats from spyware,
hackers, and other sources have developed, the use of firewalls has become commonplace.

own computer erased it permanently and completely, you
need to think again.
The list of other ways in which information technology can erode your personal privacy is long and getting
longer. For example, RFID chips are now embedded in
U.S. passports and in many states’ driver’s licenses. Some
privacy experts are concerned that such chips will make
it easy for government organizations to track individuals.
One reason government officials gave for embedding
RFID chips in passports and driver’s licenses was to make it
harder for criminals and terrorists to forge IDs. But in 2009,
a hacker publicly demonstrated the ability to read the information in these chips from a distance of several yards,
leading to fears that identity thieves could use similar techniques to obtain personal information and perhaps even
create convincing copies of these important identification
documents. Encryption and protective sleeves, however,
can prevent unauthorized scanning. Furthermore, today’s
RFID chips use one-time transactions codes, which means
that the number skimmed by a hacker is of limited value.
And many card companies have replaced RFID chips with
much more secure computer chip and PIN systems, making hacking that much more difficult.41 The result is that
thieves are more likely to successfully steal your actual ID
or passport the old-fashioned way.42
The bottom line is that there’s no simple way to solve
privacy concerns. Privacy is an elusive concept, and there is
no strong consensus about how much privacy is enough.

16-5d

Ethical and Legal Issues

Information technology raises a number of legal and
ethical challenges, such as the need to deal with privacy
issues and to protect intellectual property rights. These
issues are controversial and don’t have simple solutions.

Personal Privacy Firms now have the ability to track
customer behavior in ways that were never before possible.
This has advantages for you because it allows firms to offer better, more personalized service. But all this extra
information comes at the expense of your privacy. Does
the fact that firms know so much about your preferences
and behavior make you a bit nervous?
Does it bother you that your email messages lack
confidentiality? When you send an email, it could be
stored on several computers: your personal computer, the
server of your email provider, the server of your recipient’s
provider, and your recipient’s own computer. If you send
the email from your company’s system, it’s also likely to
be stored when the company backs up its information.
If you thought that deleting an email message from your

▪▪ What if there was only one child along the road, but five car
passengers? What if the passengers were elderly?

CHAPTER 16: Managing Information and Technology: Finding New Ways to Learn and Link
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

303

Kaspars Grinvalds/Shutterstock.com

A growing trend in intellectual property
crime is the illegal use of Internet protocol
television (IPTV) to stream pay-perview events, movies, and live television
channels. Some black market retailers
have even begun selling set-top boxes
preconfigured to play illegal streams.

Protecting Intellectual Property Rights
Intellectual property refers to products that result from
creative and intellectual efforts. There are many types of intellectual property, but we’ll focus on forms of intellectual property that are protected by copyright law, such as books, musical
works, computer programs, video games, and movies. Copyright law gives the creators
intellectual property Property
of this property the exclusive
that is the result of creative or intellectual
right to produce, record, pereffort, such as books, musical works,
form, and sell their work for a
inventions, and computer software.
specified time period.

Piracy of intellectual pro­perty occurs when someone
reproduces and distributes copyrighted work without
obtaining permission from—or providing compensation
to—the owner of the copyrighted material. When piracy becomes widespread, creators of intellectual property receive
much less income for their efforts. This can substantially reduce their incentive to continue developing creative material.
The Business Software Alliance estimates that, globally,
39% of all business software installed on personal computers
in 2015 was pirated, resulting in the loss of over $52 billion
in revenue to software companies. In several smaller countries, including Moldova, Armenia, and Zimbabwe, the rate of
piracy was over 85%. Among larger nations, the piracy rate
in China exceeded 70%, while in India it was 58%. The good
news is that the piracy rate was much lower in the United
States at 17%. But given the huge size of the U.S. software
market, even this relatively low rate of piracy still resulted in
losses of over $9.1 billion in revenue for software companies.
Faced with such a widespread problem, many software publishers have become very aggressive at prosecuting firms and
individuals engaged in software piracy.43
Music studios, video game developers, and motion picture producers also face significant problems with piracy.44
Furthermore, software piracy costs companies 1.2 billion
hours and $25 billion per year to identify, repair, and recover
pirated software that is usually infected with malware
designed to steal your personal and financial information.45
Given how lucrative piracy can be, it’s unlikely that
this problem will go away anytime soon. You can expect the companies hurt by these practices to continue
­aggressively prosecuting pirates and to work on new technologies that make pirating digital media more ­difficult.

THE BIG PICTURE
Information technology plays a vital role in
virtually every aspect of business operations.
For instance, marketing managers use information technology
to learn more about customers, reach them in novel ways, and
forge stronger relationships with them—as we showed in our
discussion of Web 2.0. Operations managers use RFID technologies
to coordinate the movement of goods within supply chains and to
keep more accurate inventory records. And financial managers use
IT to track financial conditions and identify investment opportunities. Managers in all areas of a business can use decision support
systems to improve their decision making. They also can apply
techniques such as data mining to obtain interesting new insights
hidden in the vast streams of data that flow into their companies.
Cloud computing represents the newest and one of the most
exciting new approaches to how companies acquire and

304

utilize IT resources. The use of cloud-based resources has the
potential to not only lower costs and increase flexibility but also
significantly magnify computation power. If cloud computing
can overcome concerns about security and stability, it is
likely to continue growing in popularity, which could result in
significant changes to the role IT departments play within their
organizations.
The rapid changes in IT in recent years—especially those related
to the rise of the Internet as a business venue—have opened up
exciting new commercial opportunities. But these changes have
also created a host of legal and ethical challenges and security
questions. One thing is certain: business organizations that find
ways to leverage the advantages of new IT developments while
minimizing the accompanying risks are most likely to enjoy
competitive success.

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

C AREERS IN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
Information Technology
Support Specialist
Responsible for installing and configuring software, responding
to employee and customer issues within the ticket management
system, interacting with sales, engineering, and product
managers to address complex customer issues, escalating
relevant problems to appropriate functional and management

STUDY TOOLS

teams, contributing potential technical workarounds, and acting
as a technical expert for IT solutions within a global IT team. The
ideal candidate has a bachelor’s degree in computer science or
information technology, at least one year of experience with
Windows and Unix/Linux administrative services, web services,
configuration and release management, possesses strong
analytical, problem solving, and customer communication skills,
and is self-motivated and works effectively with little instruction.

16

LOCATED AT BACK OF THE TEXTBOOK
■■

Rip-Out Chapter Review Card

■■

Gain unique perspectives on key concepts with new concept
videos in the e-book
Increase your comprehension with online homework and
quizzes

■■

■■

Study with existing flashcards and make your own

CHAPTER 16: Managing Information and Technology: Finding New Ways to Learn and Link
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

305

17

Operations Management:
Putting It All Together

LEARNING OBJECTIVES
After studying this chapter, you will be able to:

changed over the last five decades

Remember to visit

PAGE 326

17-2 Discuss the key responsibilities of operations managers
17-3 Describe how operations managers face the special challenges posed by the provision of services
17-4 Explain how changes in technology have revolutionized operations management

for additional

STUDY TOOLS

17-5 Describe the strategies operations managers have used to improve the quality of goods and services
17-6 Explain how lean and green practices can help both the organization and the environment

17-1

OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT: PRODUCING VALUE IN A CHANGING ENVIRONMENT

Operations management is concerned with managing all of the
activities involved in creating value by producing goods and services
and distributing them to customers. When operations managers do
their job well, their firms produce the right goods and services in the
right quantities and distribute them to the right customers at the right
time—all the while keeping quality high and costs low. Obviously, the
decisions of operations managers can have a major impact on a firm’s
revenues and its costs, and thus on its overall profitability.
operations management
Managing all of the activities
involved in creating value by
producing goods and services and
distributing them to customers.

efficiency Producing output or
achieving a goal at the lowest cost.

306

17-1a Responding

to a Changing
Environment

The practice of operations management has
changed dramatically over
the past half century. New

technologies, shifts in the structure of the economy, challenges posed by global competition, and concerns about
the impact of production on the environment have fueled
this revolution. Let’s begin by identifying the key changes
that have characterized the practice of operations management over the last five decades.

From a Focus on Efficiency to a Focus on Effectiveness To operations managers, efficiency means

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Rawpixel.com/Shutterstock.com

17-1 Define operations management and describe how the role of operations management has

producing a product at the lowest cost. For example, passenger planes make money in the air, not sitting at the
airport gate. So airlines strive to be as efficient as possible
when “turning” planes. This means unloading the arriving
passengers and luggage as quickly as possible, and then
loading the departing passengers and luggage equally
quickly. Ground crews must also hook the plane up to airport power and air conditioning, refuel the jet, and restock
food and beverages before the plane can get back in the
air. Turning planes efficiently is so critical to profitability
that American Airlines awards each of its 113,000 employees a bonus of $150 if the company finishes among the
top three airlines in key on-time rankings.1
Effectiveness means producing products that
create value by providing customers with goods and
services that offer a better relationship between price

“Nothing is less productive than to
make more efficient what should
not be done at all.”
— P E T E R F. D R U C K E R

“Success is simple. Do what’s
right, the right way, at the
right time.”
— A R N O L D H . G L A S O W,
AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGIST

and perceived benefits. In other words, effectiveness means
finding ways to give customers more for their money—
while still making a profit. Technological advances create value by allowing the development of faster, cheaper
products with more features and functionality every year.
For example, a 1998 desktop computer with 4MB (yes,
megabytes, not gigabytes) of memory, a 720MB hard drive,
a 14-inch VGA screen (640x480 resolution), and a bubble
jet printer (4 pages per minute) would cost $3,225 in 2017
dollars. But today, a Dell
desktop computer with
8GB of memory, a 1TB hard
effectiveness Using
resources to create value by
drive, a 23-inch HD monitor
providing customers with goods
(1920x1080 resolution), and
and services that offer a better
a wireless printer/scanner
relationship between price and
(20 pages per minute) costs
perceived benefits.
just $600 at Best Buy. In
CHAPTER 17: Operations Management: Putting It All Together

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

307

other words, for just 18.6% of the cost of the 1998 computer
package, today’s consumer gets a 1,456 times larger hard
drive, 256 times more memory, a 64% larger monitor that’s
much easier on the eyes, and a much cheaper, higher definition printer that is five times as fast. That’s giving customers more for their money!2
In the 1960s, the focus of operations management
was mainly on efficiency. The goal was to keep costs low
so the firm could make a profit while keeping prices competitive. In today’s highly competitive global markets,
efficiency remains important. But operations managers
now realize that keeping costs (and prices) low are only
part of the equation. Customers usually buy goods that
offer the best value—and these aren’t always the same
as the goods that sell for the lowest price. A product
that offers better features, more attractive styling, and
higher quality may provide more value—and attract
more customers—than a product with a lower price. Thus,
today’s operations managers have broadened their focus
to look at benefits as well as costs.

advantage of specialization and the efficient use of capital. But today’s technologies allow many firms to pursue
mass customization—the production of small quantities
of customized goods and services that more precisely
meet the needs of specific customers—with very little
increase in costs. Starbucks, for example, claims that
there are 87,000 different drink combinations that a
customer can order. Health reporter Julie Beck writes,
“You’ve got your non-fat milk, full-fat milk, soy milk, and
coconut milk; espresso shots; all the diﬀerent ﬂavored
syrups, some of which are sugar-free; whipped cream;
iced, hot, or “extra hot” if you’ve got a Kevlar tongue;
diﬀerent sizes; diﬀerent roasts of coﬀee; and on and on
and on.”4 Sophie Egan, program director at the Culinary
Institute of America, says, “Mass customization [is] a desire within our hyper industrialized food system to have
something that feels like it meets my personal taste
profile. We have access to customized and personalized
food experiences at the restaurant level, at the fast casual level, and at the packaged food level and it has only
increased.”5

From Goods to Services Goods are tangible
products that you can see and touch. Durable goods are
expected to last three years or longer; examples include
furniture, cars, and appliances. Nondurable goods, such as
toothpaste, apples, and paper towels, are used up more
quickly and are often perishable. Services are activities
that yield benefits but don’t directly result in a physical
product. Examples include legal advice, entertainment,
and medical care. Goods are consumed, while services
are experienced.
In the 1960s, the U.S. economy was a manufacturing powerhouse, with more than a third of its labor
force employed in the goods-producing sector. But
over the last five decades, the American economy has
experienced a fundamental shift away from the production of goods and toward the provision of services. By
the beginning of 2017, less than 14% of the nonfarm
labor force worked in the goods-producing sector. By
contrast, employment in the service sector had risen to
86% of the labor force.3

From Mass Production to Mass Customization
Fifty years ago, one common production strategy was
to keep costs low by producing large quantities of
standardized
products.
The goal of this mass
goods Tangible products.
production strategy was
to achieve reductions in
services Intangible products.
average cost by taking

308

From Local Competition to Global Competition
For the first 25 years after World War II, American firms dominated key markets. This strength was based partly on the
fact that the United States possessed a rich base of natural
resources, a growing and increasingly well-educated labor
force, an excellent infrastructure, and the strong incentive
system inherent in a market economy. But it also reflected
the fact that the production facilities and infrastructure in
many European and Asian nations had been severely damaged during the war.
By the early 1970s, the economies of Japan, Germany,
and other war-ravaged nations had been rebuilt, with
many of their major companies boasting efficient new
production facilities with state-of-the-art technology. In
addition, many Japanese firms had adopted new techniques that greatly improved the quality of their products.
With lower labor costs, impressive technology, and worldclass quality, these foreign producers quickly began to take
market share from American firms. In more recent years,
firms in Korea, India, and China have also become formidable competitors.

From Simple Supply Chains to Complex
Value Chains Over the last five decades, the increasingly competitive and global nature of markets
has brought about major changes in how firms produce
and distribute their goods and services. Many supply
chains today span multiple organizations located in

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Ikea: World Class Operations Management
When it comes to operations management, global home furnishings retailer Ikea is in a class by itself. Year after year, Ikea’s
products are better—and less expensive. Its Lack table, which cost $25 in 1985 ($56 adjusted for inflation), is only $10 today!
Marty Marston, a public relations manager at Ikea, says, “On average, the prices would go down, from year to year, 1 percent
overall.” How does Ikea do it? Volume discounts, vertical integration, and products that meet customers’ needs.
Being the world’s largest wood furniture producer gives Ikea leverage. When Ikea guarantees its 978 suppliers (in 50 countries)
huge production contracts, they in turn give Ikea huge volume discounts on pricing. How much does Ikea produce? To give you
some idea, 7,689,600 units of the best selling Billy book cases are produced each year, or roughly 15 per minute. With its huge
production volumes, Ikea’s costs are significantly lower than those of its competitors’.
Vertical integration occurs when a firm develops the capability to carryout processes previously performed by its suppliers
or distributors, or when it buys those external companies. Ikea uses 530 million cubic feet of wood each year—roughly 1%
of the world’s annual supply of lumber. To reduce costs and ensure access to sustainable wood, Ikea has begun vertically
integrating its lumber supplies by buying forests in Romania, Bulgaria, Estonia, Lithuania, and Latvia.

ValeStock/Shutterstock.com

A significant part of operations management is designing products that meet customers’ needs. While Ikea has always
designed products for tight living spaces (such as fold-up tables, sofas, and beds), it is now having to redesign many of
its products to accommodate modern apartment
spaces, which have shrunk worldwide by 20%
since 2001. Ikea tests new product ideas in a 600
square foot, 2-room apartment in Sweden. After
living in the test apartment for 2 weeks with
his three sons, Swede Robin Williams said, “The
apartment felt much bigger than mine, which is
actually 20 square meters bigger.”
Ikea former-CEO Peter Agnefjäll says, “We’re guided
by a vision to create a better everyday life for the
many people. That is what steers us, motivates us—
that is our role. We feel almost obliged to grow.”6

many different countries. The shift from a cost perspective to a value perspective has led operations managers to extend their view beyond the traditional supply
chain to encompass a broader range of processes and
organizations known as a value chain.

From Exploiting the Environment to Protecting the Environment In the 1960s, many operations
managers viewed the natural environment as something
to exploit. The emphasis on keeping costs low made it
tempting to dispose of wastes as cheaply as possible—
often by dumping them into rivers, lakes, or the atmosphere.
But the serious consequences of environmental pollution
became increasingly apparent. Operations managers at
socially responsible companies responded by adopting a
variety of green practices to produce goods and services
in more environmentally responsible ways. Lisa Jackson,
Apple’s vice president of environment, policy, and social

initiatives, says, “If we had our preference, we’d just be able
to say, ‘We want 100 percent green power everywhere
we use power.’ The best would be if we could run every
one of our stores, every one of our data centers, every
office complex, every building we have, on 100 percent
renewable—and if we didn’t have to spend a whole
bunch of our time and energy figuring out how to get
that done.” But since large sources of renewable energy
are scarce, Apple made a long-term commitment to
renewable energy by paying First Solar $848 million to
buy half of the energy produced at its California Flats
solar farm for 25 years.7
Exhibit 17.1 summarizes the discussion of the key
ways in which operations management has changed over
the last five decades. We’ll look at these changes in greater
detail as we move through this chapter. But first let’s take
a look at the some of the key tasks operations managers
perform.
CHAPTER 17: Operations Management: Putting It All Together

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

309

Exhibit 17.1

Operations Management: Five Decades of Change

17-2

WHAT DO OPERATIONS
MANAGERS DO?

Understanding the marketing definition of product plays a
pivotal role in understanding what operations managers
do. A product consists of all of the tangible and intangible
features (sometimes called the customer benefit package)
that create value for consumers by satisfying their needs
and wants. For example, when you purchase a car made by
General Motors, you not only get the physical automobile,
you also get (among other things) a warranty and (for
many models) up to three years of OnStar services.8 Likewise, when an airline purchases a Boeing passenger jet, it
can include training in the purchase. Boeing trains pilots,
mechanics, and flight crews on six continents with 80 fullflight simulators.9
Marketing research typically determines which
features a product should include to appeal to its target customers. Although operations managers don’t
normally have the primary responsibility for designing
these goods and services, they provide essential information and advice during the product-design process,
especially regarding the
challenges and conprocess A set of related
straints involved in creatactivities that transform inputs
ing actual products on
into outputs, thus adding value.
time and within budget.

310

Once the actual goods and services are designed,
operations managers must determine the processes
needed to produce them and get them to the customer. A
process is a set of related activities that transform inputs
into outputs, thus adding value. Once these processes are
designed, operations managers also play a key role in determining where they will be performed, what organizations will perform them, and how the processes will be
organized and coordinated.
The most obvious processes are those directly involved in the production of goods and services. But there
are many other processes that play necessary “supporting
roles.” For example, purchasing and inventory management
processes ensure that the firm has an adequate supply of
high-quality materials, parts, and components needed to
produce the goods without delays or disruptions.
Let’s take a closer look at some of the functions that
operations managers perform to move goods and services
from the drawing board to the final user.
17-2a Process Selection and Facility Layout
Once a product is designed, operations managers must determine the best way to produce it. This involves determining the most efficient processes, deciding the best sequence
in which to arrange those processes, and designing the appropriate layout of production and distribution facilities. Welldesigned processes and facility layouts enable a firm to

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

A process layout is used by many firms that need
to produce small batches of goods that require a
degree of customization. This approach arranges
equipment according to the type of task performed.
For example, in a machine shop, all of the drills may
be located in one area, all of the lathes in another
area, and all of the grinders in yet another. Unlike ass­
embly lines and other product layouts, a process
layout doesn’t require work to be performed in a specific sequence; instead, the product can be moved
from one type of machinery to another in whatever
sequence is necessary. Thus, process layouts can
be used to produce a variety of products without
the need for expensive retooling. But this flexibility
sometimes comes at the cost of longer processing
times and more complex planning and control systems. Also, because the machinery and equipment
used in a process layout is usually more generalpurpose in nature and may be used to produce a
greater variety of goods, the process layout requires
workers to be more versatile than those employed in
a product layout.

■■

A cellular layout falls between the product layout
and the process layout. It groups different types
of machinery and equipment into self-contained
cells. A production facility might have several
cells, each designed to efficiently produce a family of parts (or entire products) that have similar
processing requirements. Like an assembly line,
the product moves from one station in the cell to
the next in a specific sequence. However, unlike
most assembly lines, cells are relatively small and
are designed to be operated by a few workers
who perform a wider array of tasks than assemblyline workers.

Michaeljung/Shutterstock.com

■■

Operations managers oversee the
processes needed to produce products
and get them to customers, including
inventory control, project scheduling, and
managing value chains.

produce high-quality products effectively and efficiently, giving it a competitive advantage. Poorly designed processes can
result in production delays, quality problems, and high costs.
There are several ways to organize processes. The best
approach depends on considerations such as the volume
of production and the degree of standardization of the
product.
■■

Firms often use a product layout when they produce
goods that are relatively standardized and produced
in large volumes. This type of layout organizes machinery, equipment, and other resources according
to the specific sequence of operations that must be
performed. The machinery used in this type of layout
is often highly specialized, designed to perform one
specific task very efficiently. One classic example of a
product layout is an assembly
line, where the product being
“The other part of
produced moves from one
station to another in a fixed
outsourcing is this:
sequence, with the machinery
It simply says where
and workers at each station
the work can be done
performing specialized tasks.
Services that provide a high
outside better than it
volume of relatively standardcan be done inside,
ized products also use flowwe should do it.”
shop processes. For example,
fast-food restaurants often
—ALPHONSO ROY JACKSON,
use a simple product layout to
F O R M E R U . S . S E C R E TA R Y
prepare sand­wiches, pizzas, or
OF HOUSING AND URBAN
tacos in a standard sequence
DEVELOPMENT
of steps.

■■

A fixed position layout is used for
goods that must be produced
at a specific site (such as a
building or a dam) or that are
so large and bulky that it isn’t
feasible to move them from
station to station (such as a ship
or commercial airplane). Even
some services, such as concerts
or sporting events that are
performed at a specific location,
use this approach. In a fixed
position layout, the good or
service stays in one place, and
the employees, machinery, and
equipment are brought to the

CHAPTER 17: Operations Management: Putting It All Together
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

311

EXHIBIT 17.2 FACTORS THAT AFFECT LOCATION DECISIONS
General Location Factors

Examples of Specific Considerations

Adequacy of Utilities

Is the supply of electricity reliable?
Is clean water available?

Land

Is adequate land available for a facility?
How much does the land cost?

Labor Market Conditions

Are workers with the right skills available?
How expensive is labor?

Transportation Factors

Is the location near customers and suppliers?
Is appropriate transportation nearby?

Quality-of-Life Factors

What is the climate like?
Are adequate healthcare facilities available?

Legal and Political Environment

Does the local government support new businesses?
What are the local taxes, fees, and regulations?

fixed site when needed during various stages of the
production process.
17-2b

Facility Location

There is an old saying in real estate that the three most
important factors determining the value of a property are
“location, location, and location.” Location also matters
to operations managers because the location of facilities
strongly affects the efficiency and effectiveness of an organization’s processes.
For some types of facilities, the location decision is
dominated by one key consideration. A coal mine, for instance, must be located where there’s coal. But for many
other types of facilities, the decision is more complex.
Exhibit 17.2 identifies some key factors that operations
managers evaluate when they decide where to locate a facility, but the importance of each factor varies depending
on the specific industry. For instance, many service firms
place primary interest on locating close to their customers while manufacturing firms are often more concerned
about the cost and availability of land and labor and access to highways, railways, and port facilities. For example,
clothing designers like VF, Calvin Klein, and Tommy Hilfiger have begun locating new manufacturing facilities in
Africa thanks to its growing infrastructure, lower wages,
strong government support, and a free trade agreement
with the US—not to mention rising wages and production costs in China and
other parts of Asia. Fasinventory Stocks of
sill Tadesse, president of
goods or other items held by
the Ethiopian Textile an
organizations.
Garment Manufacturers

312

Association, says of the shift, “Investors are coming here
from Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, China, India and Turkey.”10
17-2c Inventory Control: Knowing When

to Hold ’Em

Inventories are stocks of goods or other items held by
an organization. Manufacturing firms usually hold inventories of raw materials, components and parts, work in process, and finished goods. Retail firms don’t normally hold
work in process or raw materials, but they do hold inventories of the finished goods they sell as well as basic supplies
that they need.
Deciding how much inventory to hold can be a real
challenge for operations managers because increasing (or
decreasing) the amount of inventory involves both benefits and costs. For example, the benefits of holding larger
inventories include:
■■

Smoother Production Schedules: A candy
maker might produce more candy than it needs
in August and September and hold the excess in
inventory so that it can meet the surge in demand
for Halloween treats without investing in more
production capacity.

■■

Protection against Stock-Outs and Lost Sales:
Holding larger inventories reduces the chance of
stock-outs and lost sales due to supply disruptions or
unexpected surges in demand.

■■

Reduced Ordering Costs: Every time a company
orders supplies, it incurs paperwork and handling
costs. Holding a larger average inventory reduces

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

EXHIBIT 17.3 ACTIVITIES INVOLVED IN PRESENTING A PLAY
Estimated Completion
Time (Weeks)

Activity

Description

Immediate Predecessor(s)

A

Select Play

None

2

B

Select Cast

A (must know play to know what roles are available)

4

C

Design Sets

A (must know play before sets can be designed)

4

D

Design Costumes

A (must know play to determine what costumes are needed)

5

E

Buy Materials for Sets

C (set must be designed to determine types and quantities
of materials needed to build it)

2

F

Buy Materials for Costumes

D (costumes must be designed before materials
for costumes are determined)

2

G

Build Sets

E (must have materials in order to build the sets)

4

H

Make Costumes

B, F (must have materials in order to make the costumes,
and must know actors’ sizes to ensure that costumes fit)

6

I

Initial Rehearsals

B (actors must be selected for each role before they can rehearse
their parts)

2

J

Final (Dress) Rehearsal

G, H, I (costumes and sets must be completed, and initial
rehearsals performed, before the final rehearsal can occur)

1

K

Perform Play (end of project)

J

the number of orders the firm must make and thus
reduces ordering costs.
But holding larger inventories involves costs as well as
benefits:
■■

Tied-Up Funds: Items in inventory don’t generate
revenue until they’re sold, so holding large inventories
can tie up funds that could be better used elsewhere
within the organization.

■■

Additional Holding Costs: Bigger inventories require
more storage space, which can mean extra costs for
heating, cooling, taxes, insurance, and more.

■ Increased Risk:

Holding large inventories exposes
the firm to the risk of losses due to spoilage, depreciation, and obsolescence.

Operations managers determine the optimal
amount of inventory by comparing the costs and benefits
associated with different levels of inventory. After several
years of stocking additional inventory in their stores for
online buyers to pick up, brick-and-mortar retailers like
Home Depot, Target and Walmart are aggressively reducing in-store inventories. Home Depot’s senior vice president of supply chain, Tom Shortt, says, “Get comfortable
with days of inventory, not weeks.” The risk, of course, is
stock-outs—not having products that customers need.

N/A

To minimize stock-outs, Home Depot is changing supplier
delivery schedules. For example, it might move from five
truck deliveries two-days-a-week to two truck deliveries
five-days-a-week. Finally, with less in-store inventory,
store employees can quickly put new shipments directly
onto lower store shelves instead of the slower, more expensive process of putting excess product inventory on
top shelves via ladders and forklifts.11
17-2d

Project Scheduling

Projects such as constructing a new production facility, developing a new commercial airliner, or filming a
movie are complex and expensive endeavors. It’s vital
to monitor them carefully to avoid major delays or cost
overruns. The critical path method (CPM) is one of
the most important tools that operations managers use
to manage such projects.
We can illustrate the bacritical path method
sic idea behind this tool
(CPM) A project-management
tool that illustrates the
by looking at a simple exrelationships among all the
ample in which a theater
activities involved in completing
company wants to stage
a project and identifies the
a play. Exhibit 17.3 pressequence of activities likely to take
ents the steps involved in
the longest to complete.
this project.
CHAPTER 17: Operations Management: Putting It All Together

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

313

Exhibit 17.4

A CPM Network for Staging a Play
Initia l
Rehearsals
Sel ect
Cas t

I

B

Select
Play

A

Make
Costumes

Design
Se t

Buy Se t
Materials

Build
Sets

C

E

G

Design
Costumes
D

Buy Costum e
Materials

Perform
Play
J

K

Dress
Rehearsal

F

Notice that Exhibit 17.3 identifies immediate
predecessors for all of the activities except activity A. Immediate predecessors are activities that must be completed
before another activity can begin. For example, it is clear
that the cast for the play cannot be determined until the
play has been selected, so activity A (selecting the play) is
an immediate predecessor to activity B (selecting the cast).
Similarly, since sets can’t be built without lumber, paint, and
other materials, activity E (buying materials for the sets) is
an immediate predecessor for activity G (building the sets).

Using the Critical Path Method to Focus
Efforts Now look at Exhibit 17.4, which is a CPM network for the theater project. This network shows how
all of the activities in the theater project are related
to each other. The direction of the arrows shows the
immediate predecessors for each activity. Notice that
arrows go from activities B (selecting the cast) and F
(purchasing material for the costumes) to activity H
(making the costumes).
This indicates that both
immediate predecessors
of these activities are imActivities in a project that must
mediate predecessors for
be completed before some other
activity H—the costumes
specified activity can begin.
can’t be made without
critical path The sequence
material, and they must
of activities in a project that is
be made in the correct
expected to take the longest to
sizes to fit the actors. But
complete.
also notice that no arrow

314

H

links activities B and C. This shows that these are independent activities; in other words, the theater company
doesn’t have to select the cast before it designs the sets
(or vice versa).
We can use Exhibit 17.4 to illustrate some basic concepts used in CPM analysis. A path is a sequence of activities
that must be completed in the order specified by the arrows
for the overall project to be completed. You can trace several paths in our example by following a series of arrows
from start to finish. For example, one path is A → B →
I → J → K, and another path is A → C → E → G → J → K.
The critical path consists of the sequence of activities that takes the longest to complete. A delay in any
activity on a critical path is likely to delay the completion of
the entire project. Thus, operations managers watch activities on the critical path very carefully and take actions to
help ensure that they remain on schedule. We’ve shown
the critical path for the theater project (A → D → F → H →
J → K) with red arrows on our diagram.
Distinguishing between the critical path and other
paths can help operations managers allocate resources
more efficiently. Activities that aren’t on the critical path
can be delayed without causing a delay in the overall
completion of the project—as long as the delay isn’t too
great. In CPM terminology, these activities have slack. When
operations managers see delays in critical path activities,
they may be able to keep the project on track by diverting
manpower and other resources from activities with slack to
activities on the critical path.

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

17-2e

Designing and Managing Value Chains

Perhaps the most important function of operations management is the design and management of value chains. A value
chain is the network of relationships that channels the flow
of inputs, information, and financial resources through all
of the processes directly or indirectly involved in producing
goods and services and distributing them to customers.
An organization’s value chain clearly includes its supply chain, which consists of the organizations, activities,
and processes involved in the physical flow of goods, from
the raw materials stage to the final consumer. In fact, some
organizations use the terms value chain and supply chain
interchangeably. But a value chain is a broader concept; in
addition to the supply chain, it includes activities and processes involved in acquiring customers—such as contract
negotiations and customer financing—as well as activities
and processes involved in keeping customers by providing
services after the sale, such as performing warranty repairs,
offering call center assistance, and helping customers recycle used goods. In a value chain, the main focus is on the
customer; in contrast, the supply chain is more oriented toward traditional production relationships.12
One of the most important issues that operations managers examine when they design value chains is the tradeoff between vertical integration and outsourcing. Vertical
integration occurs when a firm attempts to gain more
control over its value chain by either developing the ability
to perform processes previously performed by other organizations in the chain or by acquiring those organizations.
Netflix streams TV shows and movies to customers around
the world, accounting for nearly a third of all downstream
Internet traffic. To avoid bottlenecks, reduce how long it
takes content to get to customers, and maximize the quality of its streamed data, Netflix installed hundreds of server
boxes in the data warehouses of local Internet providers
around the world. When asked whether Netflix should be
more vertically integrated, Netflix CEO Reed Hastings answered, “no…[not with] the data transmission layer. We’re a
global company. We work with about 600 Internet service
providers around the world. Netflix is an application on top
of the Internet.” On the other hand, Netflix began producing
its own TV shows several years ago, such as House of Cards,
Orange is the New Black, the Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt,
and nearly 50 others. According to Hastings, That is a form
of vertical integration that’s been very successful for us.”13
Outsourcing is essentially the opposite of vertical integration; it involves arranging for other organizations to perform value chain functions that were previously performed
internally. In recent years, the trend in value chain design has
been to rely more on outsourcing and less on vertical integration. Outsourcing allows a firm to shed functions it doesn’t

perform well in order to focus on its areas of strength. It also
frees people, money, and other resources that had been tied
up in the outsourced activities, allowing these resources to
be employed in more profitable ways. ways. Apple, based
in Cupertino, California, designs but does not manufacture
the iPads, iPhones, Mac computers, watches, and AirPods
that it sells. Apple’s products are manufactured in an outsourced global supply chain. The manufacture of the home
button for the iPhone starts in Changsha, China where the
top sapphire covers are made. Six hundred miles away in
China’s Jiangsu province, the sapphire covers are bonded
to metal trim rings. Those combined parts are shipped to
Taiwan, 1,000 miles away, to be attached to chips made in
Shanghai, China and Touch ID sensors made in Europe. Final
additions include button switches from Japan, flex circuits
from Taiwan, and a 1,500 mile trip to Japan to be sealed and
welded. Completed home buttons are finally installed in
iPhones in Zhengzhou, China. Total travel distance for the
parts involved—12,000 miles.14
Even when a firm decides to perform processes
itself, it still faces a choice: Should it perform these functions domestically, or should it offshore these activities? Offshoring means moving processes previously
performed domestically to a foreign location. It is important
to realize that offshoring is not the same thing as outsourcing processes to other organizations. Offshoring doesn’t
require outsourcing; a firm often offshores processes by
directly investing in its own foreign facilities. Similarly, outsourcing doesn’t require a firm to go offshore; activities can
be outsourced to other domestic firms. Despite this distinction, many firms have combined these approaches by hiring
organizations in other countries to perform some of the
value chain The network
processes that they previof relationships that channels
ously performed at their
the flow of inputs, information,
own domestic facilities.
and financial resources through
all of the processes directly or
It is also worth notindirectly involved in producing
ing that offshoring can go
goods and services and
in both directions. Just as
distributing them to customers.
American firms offshore provertical integration
cesses to other countries,
Performance of processes
some foreign companies
internally that were previously
offshore some of their properformed by other organizations
in a supply chain.
cesses to the United States.
For example, several Japaoutsourcing Arranging for
nese, European, and Korean
other organizations to perform
supply chain functions that were
automakers now have extenpreviously performed internally.
sive design and production
offshoring Moving
facilities in the United States.
production or support processes
One common reason
to foreign countries.
for offshoring by U.S. firms
CHAPTER 17: Operations Management: Putting It All Together

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

315

Golden Brown/Shutterstock.com

Offshoring involves moving activities
previously performed domestically to a
foreign location.
is to take advantage of less expensive labor. But other factors can also play a role. Land and other resources also may
be less expensive in developing nations than in the United
States. And some foreign governments, eager to attract
American investments, may offer financial incentives or
other inducements. In addition, many foreign markets are
growing much more rapidly than the relatively mature U.S.
market. Firms often find it advantageous to locate production facilities close to these rapidly growing markets.
While foreign outsourcing can often reduce costs,
it also can complicate value chains and create coordination problems. And it can expose the firm to certain
types of risks. When a firm outsources important functions, it may have to entrust others in its value chain
with confidential information and intellectual property, such as copyrighted material or patented designs.
These strategic assets have less legal protection in some
countries than in the United States, so providing access
to foreign firms may increase the risk that the firm’s intellectual property will be pirated or counterfeited. This
issue has been of greatest concern when firms have
outsourced some of their supply chain functions to organizations in China.15
Given the trend toward offshoring and outsourcing, value chains (and
enterprise resource
the supply chains at their
planning (ERP) Softwarebased approach to integrate
core) have become inan organization’s (and in the
creasingly complex, often
sophisticated versions, a value
involving many different
chain’s) information flows.
organizations and proservicescape The
cesses located in many difenvironment in which a
ferent countries. Modern
customer and service provider
operations managers rely
interact.
on sophisticated supply

316

chain management software to streamline the communications among supply chain participants and to help them
plan and coordinate their efforts.
The newest versions of enterprise resource
planning (ERP) software take supply chain management
to its highest level. ERP initially focused on integrating the
flow of information among all aspects of a single organization’s operations—accounting, finance, sales and marketing,
production, and human resources. But the newest versions
go beyond a single organization to help manage activities
along an entire supply chain or value chain. The common information system makes it easier for organizations throughout the chain to communicate and coordinate their activities.
ERP systems do have some drawbacks. They are complex, expensive, and difficult to implement, and they require
users to learn new ways to enter and access data. Productivity can actually fall until users become accustomed to
these new methods. But despite these challenges, ERP
systems have become very popular. And they continue
to evolve and take advantage of new technologies. One
of the newest developments is the arrival of Web-based
ERP systems that can be “rented” from online providers—a
strategy that reduces the need to invest in new hardware
and software. The use of Web-based ERP services is an example of cloud computing discussed in Chapter 16.16

17-3

IMPLICATIONS OF A SERVICEBASED ECONOMY: RESPONDING
TO DIFFERENT CHALLENGES

Exhibit 17.5 illustrates how services differ from tangible
goods. These differences present a number of challenges
to service providers. One key challenge arises because
customers often participate in the provision of services,
which means that service providers have less control over
how the process is carried out, how long it takes to complete,
and whether the result is satisfactory. For instance, the
accuracy of a doctor’s diagnosis depends on how honestly
and completely the patient answers the doctor’s questions.
And the amount of time the doctor spends with each
patient will depend on the seriousness of the problem and
the complexity of the diagnosis and treatment.
17-3a

Designing the Servicescape

Because of the interaction between customers and
service providers, the design of service facilities often must
take the experiences of the participants into account. A
servicescape is the environment in which the customer
and service provider interact. A well-designed servicescape

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

EXHIBIT 17.5 DIFFERENCES BETWEEN GOODS
AND SERVICES
Goods

Services

Are tangible: They have a physical
form and can be seen, touched,
handled, etc.

Are intangible: They can be “experienced,” but they don’t have
a physical form.

Can be stored in an inventory.

Must be consumed when they
are produced.

Can be shipped.

Must be consumed where they
are provided.

Are produced independently of
the consumer.

Often require the customer to
be actively involved in their
production.

Can have at least some aspects
of their quality determined objectively by measuring defects or
deviations from desired values.

Intangible nature means quality
is based mainly on customer
perceptions.

can have a positive influence on the attitudes and perceptions
of both the customer and those who provide the service.
A poor servicescape can have the opposite effect.7
The design of servicescapes centers on three types of
factors: ambience; functionality; and signs, symbols, and
artifacts.
■■

Ambience refers to factors such as decor, background
music, lighting, noise levels, and even scents. For
example, massage therapists often use low light,
soothing background music, and pleasant scents to
create a relaxing atmosphere for a massage.

■■

Functionality involves how easy it is for the customers
to move through the facility and find what they are
looking for.

■■

Signs, symbols, and artifacts convey information to
customers and create impressions. Obviously, signs like
“Place Your Order Here” and “Pick Up Your Order Here”
provide useful information that helps consumers maneuver through the service encounter. But other signs and
symbols can be used to create favorable impressions.

Taco Bell has significantly redesigned its servicescape to create new Taco Bell Cantina restaurants. These
new locations are designed to compete with more upscale Chipotle Mexican restaurants. There are no drivethroughs at the Cantinas, which makes them easier to
locate in city and urban locations. Menus, ordering,
and payment are all digitized. Local architecture influences the interior and exterior design, thus differentiating each Cantina’s look. Green design is emphasized
with reclaimed materials and LED lighting. Open design

kitchens permit customers to see their food prepared as
it is ordered. In addition to the standard Taco Bell menu,
Cantinas will serve tapas-style shareable appetizers and
alcohol (beer, wine, sangria, and frozen drinks).17 R. J.
Hottovy, a financial analyst at investment data and consultancy firm Morningstar, says, “Consumers have shown
a willingness to pay up for fast-casual brands such as
Chipotle, Five Guys, and Panera. I think this is Taco Bell
attempting to play in that space.”18
17-3b

How Big Is Big Enough?

Because services are intangible and often must be experienced at the time they are created, service providers
can’t produce the service in advance and store it to meet
temporary surges in demand. This can create challenges
for operations managers because the demand for many
types of services varies significantly, depending on the
season, the day of the week, or the time of day. During
peak lunch and dinner hours, popular restaurants tend
to be very busy—often with crowds waiting to get a
table. The same restaurants may be nearly empty during
the mid-afternoon or late at night. Given such fluctuations in demand, the selection of capacity—the number
of customers the service facility can accommodate per
time period—becomes a crucial consideration.
If the capacity of a service facility is too small, customers
facing long waits during periods of peak demand may well
take their business elsewhere. But a facility large enough
to handle peak capacity is more expensive to build; costs
more to heat, cool, and insure; and may have substantial
excess capacity during off-peak periods. Operations managers must weigh these drawbacks against the ability to
handle a larger number of customers during peak hours.
Many service firms try to minimize this trade-off by finding ways to spread out demand so that big surges don’t occur. One way to do this is to give customers an incentive to
use the service at off-peak times. Many bars and restaurants
have “happy hours” or “early-bird specials.” Similarly, movie
theaters have lower prices for matinée showings, and resort
hotels offer reduced rates during their off seasons.

17-4

THE TECHNOLOGY
OF OPERATIONS

Now let’s take a close look at how technology has revolutionized operations management. Some of the new
technologies involve the increasing sophistication of machinery and equipment. Others involve advances in software and information technology. The impact of these
technological advances is greatest when the automated
CHAPTER 17: Operations Management: Putting It All Together

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

317

17-4a

Automation: The Rise of the Machine

For the past half century, one of the biggest trends in operations management has been increased automation
of many processes. Automation means replacing human
operation and control of machinery and equipment with
some form of programmed control. The use of automated
systems has become increasingly common—and increasingly sophisticated.
Automation began in the early 1950s with primitive
programmed machines. But in recent decades, robots
have taken automation to a whole new level. Robots are
reprogrammable machines that can manipulate materials,
tools, parts, and specialized devices in order to perform a
variety of tasks. Some robots have special sensors that allow
them to “see,” “hear,” or “feel” their environment. Many robots
are mobile and can even be guided over rugged terrain.
Robots offer many advantages to firms:
■■

They often perform jobs that most human workers find tedious, dirty, dangerous, or physically
demanding.

■■

They don’t get tired, so they can work very long
hours while maintaining a consistently high level of
performance.

■■

17-4b

human operation and control
of machinery and equipment
with some form of programmed
control.

robot A reprogrammable
machine that is capable of
manipulating materials, tools,
parts, and specialized devices in
order to perform a variety of tasks.

computer-aided design
(CAD) Drawing and drafting
software that enables users to
create and edit blueprints and
design drawings quickly and
easily.

computer-aided
engineering (CAE)
Software that enables users to
test, analyze, and optimize their
designs.

Robots are most commonly used for tasks such
as welding, spray painting,
and assembling products,
but they can do many
other things ranging from
packaging frozen pizza to
disposing of hazardous
waste. Robot use is expanding in manufacturing.
Foxconn, which makes the
iPhone for Apple, today
uses robots to do the job
of 60,000 factory workers.
However, robots are also
beginning to make a difference in restaurants and
fast food chains as well.19
In China, where restaurants are struggling with
labor shortages and rising

Software Technologies

Several types of software have become common in operations management, and as the processing power of
computers has improved, the capabilities of these applications have become increasingly sophisticated. Some of the
most common examples include:
■■

They are flexible; unlike old dogs, robots
can be taught new tricks because they are
reprogrammable.

automation Replacing

318

wages, robots are used for everything from slicing noodles
to delivering food, to stopping at tables so that guests
can clear their plates onto the robot’s food and plate tray.
Jiao Songhui, a manager at Beijing restaurant Fragrant Island Robot-Sliced Noodles, says, “Robot-sliced noodles are
tastier . . . the texture is softer, more even.”20 Zume Pizza in
Mountain View, California uses robots to spread sauce on
pizza (employees add the other ingredients) and then put
the pizzas into 850-degree ovens.21 Cafe X in San Francisco
combines digital ordering with robot baristas to create
made-to-order lattes, cappuccinos, and other espressobased coffee drinks.22 Are we likely to see more robots
and automation in restaurants? Yes. In China, labor savings
allow restaurants to fully pay for the cost of a robot in
1.3 years.23 McDonald’s former CEO Ed Rensi said, “It’s
cheaper to buy a $35,000 robotic arm than it is to hire an
employee who is inefficient, making $15 an hour bagging
French fries.”24

■■

Computer-aided design (CAD) software provides powerful drawing and drafting tools that enable
users to create and edit blueprints and design drawings quickly and easily. Current CAD programs allow
users to create 3-D drawings.
Computer-aided engineering
(CAE) software enables users to
test, analyze, and optimize
their designs through

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

asharkyu/Shutterstock.com

machinery is directly linked to the new software running
on powerful new computers.

“Customers don’t expect you to be
perfect. They do expect you to fix
things when they go wrong.”
— D O N A L D P O R T E R , V I C E P R E S I D E N T,
B R I T I S H A I R WAY S
computer simulations. CAE software can help engineers find and correct design flaws before production.
■■

Computer-aided manufacturing (CAM) software takes the electronic design for a product and
creates the programmed instructions that robots and
other automated equipment must follow to produce
that product as efficiently as possible.

Today, computer-aided design and computeraided manufacturing software are often combined
into a single system, called CAD/CAM. This enables
CAD designs to flow directly to CAM programs, which
then send instructions directly to the automated equipment on the factory floor to guide the production
process.
When a CAD/CAM software system is integrated
with robots and other high-tech equipment, the result
is computer-integrated manufacturing (CIM),
in which the whole design and production process is
highly automated. The speed of computers, the ability to
reprogram computers rapidly, and the integration of all
these functions make it possible to switch from the design and production of one good to another quickly and
efficiently. CIM allows firms to produce custom-designed
products for individual customers quickly and at costs
almost as low as those associated with mass-production
techniques, thus allowing firms to pursue the strategy of
mass customization mentioned at the beginning of this
chapter.

17-5

FOCUS ON QUALITY

Almost everyone agrees that quality is important. But the
concept of quality is tough to define—even expert opinions differ. For our purposes, we’ll adopt the view that
quality is defined in terms of how well a good or service
satisfies customer preferences.
Why is quality so important? First, better quality
clearly improves effectiveness (creates value) since consumers perceive high-quality goods as having greater
value than low-quality goods. But finding ways to increase
quality can also lead to greater efficiency because the cost

of poor quality can be very high. When a firm detects defective products, it must scrap, rework, or repair them.
And the costs of poor quality can be even higher when
a firm doesn’t catch defects before shipping products to
consumers. These costs include handling customer complaints, warranty repair work, loss of goodwill, and the
possibility of bad publicity or lawsuits. In the long run,
firms often find that improving quality reduces these costs
by more than enough to make up for their investment.
These ideas aren’t especially new. W. Edwards Deming,
viewed by many as the father of the quality movement,
first proposed the relationship between quality and business success in the early 1950s. His ideas, which came to
be known as the Deming Chain Reaction, are summarized
in Exhibit 17.6.
17-5a

Waking Up to the Need for Quality

In the years immediately after World War II, most Japanese
goods had a reputation for being cheap and shoddy. But
during the 1950s, many Japanese firms sought advice
from Deming and other U.S. quality gurus. They learned
to view quality improvement as a continuous process that
was the responsibility of all employees in the organization. During the 1950s and 1960s, the quality of Japanese
goods slowly but steadily improved.
By the early 1970s, many Japanese firms had
achieved a remarkable turnaround, with quality levels
that exceeded those of
companies in most other
computer-aided
countries (including the
manufacturing (CAM)
United States) by a wide
Software that takes the
margin. This improved
electronic design for a product
quality was a major reason
and creates the programmed
instructions that robots must
why Japanese firms rapfollow to produce that product
idly gained global market
as efficiently as possible.
share, often at the expense
computer-aided design/
of American firms that had
computer-aided
faced little competition in
manufacturing (CAD/
years immediately followCAM) A combination of
ing World War II.
software that can be used
17-5b How Global

Firms
Responded
to the Quality
Challenge

When operations managers
realized how far they trailed
the Japanese in quality,
they made a real effort to

to design output and send
instructions to automated
equipment to perform the steps
needed to produce this output.

computer-integrated
manufacturing (CIM)
A combination of CAD/
CAM software with flexible
manufacturing systems to
automate almost all steps
involved in designing, testing,
and producing a product.

CHAPTER 17: Operations Management: Putting It All Together
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

319

Mining 24 Hours a Day without People?

Australian mining company Rio Tinto uses self-driving trucks
as big as two-story buildings to move iron ore. Not only are
the driverless trucks 15% less expensive to run (drivers earn
$250,000 per year), they’re also more consistent in terms of
operations, such as lining up for loading and unloading. Rio
Tinto’s Rob Atkinson says, “All those places where you could
lose a few seconds or minutes by not being consistent add
up.” Thanks to these benefits and improved safety, Atkinson
says, “We’re going to continue as aggressively as possible
down this [automation] path.”

productivity gains” and “extracting more ore from complex
ore bodies.”
Next steps include further development of an automated
drilling system and AutoHaul, a fully automated longdistance rail system (1,056 miles) that will deliver iron ore to
export terminals. By not having to change drivers, AutoHaul
will add two hours of running time per day, yielding an
immediate 8.3% increase in shipping volume.25

Plaksina/Shutterstock.com

Using automation and robotics to replace human operation
and control of equipment with some form of programmed
control is one of the biggest trends in operations
management today. Robots often perform jobs that people
find tedious, dirty, dangerous, or physically demanding. And
it’s hard to think of a more dirty, dangerous, or physically
demanding job than mining.

And with iron ore prices at $60 per ton (down from $136 in
2013 and $180 in 2011), Rio Tinto does need to cut costs.
Which is why the company’s The Mine of the Future program
is driving automation into every corner of the business.
The program’s two main goals are “achieving massive

change their ways. Like the Japanese a few decades earlier,
business leaders began to view improving the quality of
their goods and services as a key to regaining international
competitiveness.

Total Quality Management The first result of this
newfound emphasis on quality was the development of an
approach called total quality management (TQM),
better known as TQM. There are several variations, but all
versions of TQM share the following characteristics:
Customer Focus: TQM recognizes that quality should
be defined by the preferences and perceptions of customers. Since airlines started charging passengers to
check luggage, travelers have brought more carry-on
bags onto planes. Overhead bins don’t have enough
storage for every passenger,
so frustrated late-boarding
total quality management
passengers often have to
(TQM) An approach to quality
check their bags at the
improvement that calls for
gate and pick them up at
everyone within an organization
to take responsibility for
baggage claim. Customer
improving quality and
and airline complaints
emphasizes the need for a longprompted Boeing engineer
term commitment to continuous
Brent Walton to redesign
improvement.
overhead bins to make

them tall enough to flip bags onto their narrower sides.
With overhead bins now able to hold six bags rather
than four, Boeing’s bestselling 737-900 can now accomodate 174 roll-aboard bags—almost enough for the
plane’s 181 passengers.26
■■

Emphasis on Building Quality throughout the
Organization: TQM views quality as the concern of
every department and every employee.

■■

Empowerment of Employees: Most TQM programs
give teams of workers the responsibility and authority
to make and implement decisions to improve quality.

■■

Focus on Prevention Rather than Correction:
The TQM philosophy agrees with the old adage that
an “ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.”
Thus, TQM pursues a strategy of preventing mistakes that create defects. While Ikea is known for its
low-cost self-assembly furniture, it is also strongly
focused on quality. Karen Hopkinson Pflug, Ikea’s
global head of quality, says she was hired “to look
at quality from the supply chain right through the
customer satisfaction point of view. We’re focusing
on quality as an enabler of lower cost.”27 Under her
leadership, Ikea runs two product testing labs, one in
Sweden and the other in China. Together, these labs

■■

320

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Exhibit 17.6

The Deming Chain Reaction:
Improved Quality Helps the
Business’s Bottom Line
Improve quality

Costs decrease because of less
rework, fewer mistakes, fewer
delays and snags, and better use
of time and materials

Productivity improves

Capture the market with better
quality and lower price

Stay in business

Provide jobs and more jobs

conduct more than 100,000 quality tests each year.
The focus of this product testing, Pflug says, is to “get
things right at the very beginning.”28
■■

Long-Run Commitment to Continuous Improvement: TQM requires firms to adopt a focus
on making improvements in quality a way of life.

In many cases, firms using TQM attempt to reduce
defects by using poka-yokes—the Japanese term for
“mistake proofing.” Poka-yokes are simple procedures built
into the production process that either prevent workers
from making mistakes or help workers quickly catch and
correct mistakes if they do occur. One simple example of
a poka-yoke would be providing assembly workers with
“kits” that contain exactly enough parts to complete one
unit of work at a time. If the worker completes an assembly and sees a part left over, it’s clear that a mistake has
been made, and he or she can correct it on the spot.29

The Move to Six Sigma During the 1990s, another approach to quality improvement, known as Six
Sigma, became increasingly popular. Six Sigma shares

some characteristics with TQM, such as an organization-wide focus on quality, emphasis on finding and
eliminating causes of errors or defects (prevention
rather than correction), and a long-term focus on
continuous quality improvement. Also like TQM, it relies on teams of workers to carry out specific projects
to improve quality. At any given time, a firm may have
several Six Sigma projects under way, and the goal of
each is to achieve the Six Sigma level of quality.
But Six Sigma differs from TQM in other respects.
Unlike TQM, it has a single unifying measure: to reduce
defects of any operation or process to a level of no more
than 3.4 per million opportunities. Attaining this level of
quality represents a rigorous and challenging goal. Six
Sigma also differs from TQM in its reliance on extensive
(and expensive) employee training and reliance on expert guidance. The techniques used in the Six Sigma approach are quite advanced, and their application requires
a high level of expertise.

Quality Standards and Initiatives
17-5c 
Another way firms try to improve quality is to launch
programs designed to achieve certification or recognition from outside authorities. Two common approaches are participation in the Baldrige National
Quality Program and seeking certification under the
International Organization for Standardization’s ISO
9000 standards.

The Baldrige National Quality Program
Congress passed the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Improvement Act of 1987 in an effort to encourage
American firms to become more competitive in the
global economy by vigorously pursuing improvements
in quality and productivity. Winners of the Baldrige
poka-yokes Simple
methods incorporated into a
Award must demonstrate
production process designed
excellence in seven arto eliminate or greatly
eas: leadership; strategy;
reduce errors.
customers; measurement,
Six Sigma An approach
analysis and knowledge
to quality improvement
management; workforce;
characterized by very ambitious
operations; and results.
quality goals, extensive training
of employees, and a long-term
Firms that participate
commitment to working on
in the Baldrige National
quality-related issues.
Quality Program reBaldrige National
ceive benefits even if they
Quality Program A
don’t win the award. Every
national program to encourage
participating firm receives
American firms to focus on
a detailed report prequality improvement.
pared by expert evaluators
CHAPTER 17: Operations Management: Putting It All Together

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

321

At UPS, Orion Refines the Delivery
Process for Efficiency
Throughout its history, UPS has studied and dissected the
process of package delivery down to the smallest detail. Drivers
have long been trained to walk briskly (not run) and avoid left
turns (they’re less efficient than right turns).
From the receipt of a package to its delivery, having a refined
process is critical for UPS. It is the world’s largest package
delivery company, operating in 200 countries and territories. Its
drivers cover 55,000 routes per day in the United States alone.

GagliardiImages/Shutterstock.com

As the number of routes is increasing, the type of delivery on
each route is changing. Previously, UPS focused on commercial
deliveries. Drivers would deliver and pick up multiple packages
at a single business location. By 2018, however, UPS estimates
that half of all deliveries will be residential (one package, one
house) thanks to the explosion in e-commerce.

identifying areas of strength and areas where improvement is needed. Considering the normal fees that highpowered consulting firms charge for similar reports, the
information and advice a firm gets for the fee charged to
participate in the Baldrige program (which for manufacturing, service, and small businesses is $10,560 to $19,800 in
2017) are a tremendous bargain!31

ISO 9000 Certification Founded in 1947, ISO is a
network of national standards institutes from more
than 161 nations that have worked together to deve­lop
over 21,000 international standards for a wide array of
industries. ISO standards ensure that goods produced in
one country will meet the
requirements of buyers in
ISO 9000 A family of
another country. This bengeneric standards for quality
efits buyers by giving them
management systems
the ability to purchase from
established by the International
foreign sellers with confiOrganization for Standardization.
dence, thus giving them

322

To add further complexity, UPS’s “My Choice” service allows
customers to choose the time and location of their deliveries.
When any of the 12.9 million subscribers to My Choice makes a
change in delivery preferences, it affects the route planned by
the driver delivering the package. Each driver makes an average
of 120 stops each day, so reshuffling deliveries throughout the
day for each change wreaks havoc on the driver’s schedule and
efficiency.
At the same time, the company knows that it can save $50 million
per year by reducing each of its routes by an average of just a
single mile per day.
Enter ORION (On-Road Integrated Optimization and Navigation).
A team of 50 UPS engineers wrote the 1,000-page algorithm
that searches for the best possible way for drivers to organize
their routes and calculates the most efficient path between
a variety of points. Every time a change to a driver’s route
is needed, ORION considers up to 200,000 options before
indicating the best scheduling alternative. ORION then reorganizes the entire route to accommodate the change and maintain
efficiency and consistency.
Currently 40% of domestic UPS routes use ORION technology to
schedule deliveries. By 2017, UPS expects all 55,000 routes to be
using ORION, saving the company $300 million to $400 million
annually—even with a few left turns.30

a wider array of choices. It also benefits sellers by allowing
them to compete more successfully in global markets.32
Most of the standards established by the ISO are
industry-specific. But in 1987, the ISO developed and
published the ISO 9000 family of standards. The goal
of this effort was to articulate an international consensus
on good quality-management practices that could be applied to virtually any company. Similar to the other quality
initiatives we’ve discussed, ISO 9000 standards define quality in terms of the ability to satisfy customer preferences
and require the firm to implement procedures for continuous quality improvement.

“Quality is more important than
quantity. One home run is much
better than two doubles.”
—STEVE JOBS, CO-FOUNDER
OF APPLE

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Drones to the Rescue
Maintaining oil rigs is dangerous. Workers in harnesses attached
to safety wires dangle from rigs as high as 40 stories tall as they
look for cracks, rusting or broken parts, and nonfunctioning
machinery that needs fixing or replacing. According to British
Petroleum (BP) technology director Curt Smith, the old way to do
maintenance inspections “was to shut everything down, put up
scaffolding, have people climb around and see what is going on.”

think4photop/Shutterstock.com

Now, however, the energy industry is saving time, money, and
lives by replacing oil rig inspectors with flying drones equipped

There are several standards in the ISO 9000 family,
but the most basic—and the only one for which organizations can be certified—is ISO 9001, which specifies the
requirements for a quality-management system. (Other
ISO 9000 standards are concerned with the documentation, training, and the economic and financial aspects of
quality management.) As of 2016, over 1.03 million organizations worldwide had earned ISO 9001 certificates,
but the number of U.S. firms with ISO 9001 certification
lags that of several other nations. Only about 33,000 U.S.
organizations had been certified in 2016, compared to
over 292,000 in China and 132,000 in Italy.34

17-6

THE MOVE TO BE LEAN
AND GREEN: CUTTING COST
AND CUTTING WASTE

Lean production refers to a set of strategies and
practices to eliminate waste, which is defined as any
function or activity that uses resources but doesn’t
create value. Eliminating waste can lead to dramatic
improvements in efficiency. For example, Louis Vuitton produces some of the most expensive handmade
bags and purses in the world. To increase productivity,
it switched to teams of 6 to 12 workers who learned to
complete multiple production steps. So instead of having

with high-definition thermal cameras. Industry analyst Michael
Blades says, “Drones can do just about anything the energy
companies don’t want to send people to do.”
During a standard drone inspection, an engineer and a drone
operator fly a small drone around the oil rig, mapping the
structure in 3D. Chris Blackford, COO of drone inspection
company Sky Futures, says, “What we can capture in five days
using a drone could take eight weeks with human inspectors.”
Moreover, inspections can occur without shutting down
operation, saving as much as $4 million in otherwise lost
production.
While drone operators are needed for more complex
operations, automated drones can be used to continuously
monitor sites and facilities. So-called boomerang self-piloted
drones lift off, fly their routes, capture their data, and then
return to their docking stations upload their information
and automatically replace used batteries with charged
batteries.33

three workers separately gluing, stitching, and finishing
the edges of a flap over and over, one worker would do
all three steps. Because of that, says CEO Ives Carcelle,
“We were able to hire 300 new people without adding a
factory.”35
17-6a

 educing Investment in Inventory:
R
Just-In-Time to the Rescue

One of the hallmarks of lean systems is a tight control
on inventories. In part, this reflects recognition of the
costs of holding large inventories that we discussed
earlier. But the lean approach also offers another reason
for minimizing inventories. Large inventories serve as a
buffer that enables a firm to continue operations when
problems arise due to poor quality, faulty equipment, or
unreliable suppliers—making it easier for firms to live
with these problems rather than correct them. Advocates of lean production argue that, in the long run, it
is more efficient to improve quality, keep equipment in
good working order, and develop reliable supply relationships than to continue
compensating for these
lean production
problems by holding large
inventories.
Lean manufacturing
avoids overproduction and
holding large inventories of

An approach to production that
emphasizes the elimination
of waste in all aspects of
production processes.

CHAPTER 17: Operations Management: Putting It All Together
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

323

324

that it can leave producers vulnerable to supply disruptions. If a key supplier is unable to make deliveries due to
a natural disaster, labor strike, or other problem, the firms
further along the supply chain may quickly run out of parts
or materials and have to shut down production.
17-6b

Lean Thinking in the Service Sector

Employing lean principles in the service sector can be
quite a challenge because customers often participate
in providing the service. This means a service firm usually has less control over how processes are conducted.
But many service firms have benefited from creatively
applying lean techniques. Kroger supermarkets used
lean thinking to reduce checkout waiting times. Kroger
uses Vision, a network of infrared sensors, to count the
customers in a store and then determine how many
checkout aisles should be opened now and in the next
30 minutes. The system dramatically slashed average
checkout times from four minutes a few years ago to just
26 seconds today. As a result, customer satisfaction with
checkout speed is up 42%, while sales are up nearly 10%.
Kroger former Senior Vice President Marnette Perry said,
“There are 7 million shoppers at Kroger stores today—
we’ll save them 25 million minutes today.”37
17-6c Green Practices: Helping the Firm

by Helping the Environment

Many of today’s leading firms have also tried to become “greener” by finding environmentally friendly
ways to carry out the processes needed to produce

Elxeneize/Shutterstock.com

finished goods by using just-in-time (JIT) production methods. JIT produces only enough goods to satisfy current demand. This approach is called a pull system
because actual orders “pull” the goods through the production process. The workers at the end of the production process produce just enough of the final product
to satisfy actual orders and use just enough parts and
materials from preceding stages of production to satisfy
their needs. Workers at each earlier stage are expected
to produce just enough output at their workstations to
replace the amount used by the processes further along
in the process—and in so doing they withdraw just the
needed amount of parts and other supplies from even
earlier processes.
JIT techniques obviously result in very small inventories of finished goods and work in process. But lean
firms also hold only small inventories of materials and
parts, counting on suppliers to provide them with these
items as they need them to meet current demand. In a
lean system, all organizations in the supply chain use
the JIT approach, so that inventories are minimized at
each stage. Clearly, this type of system requires incredible coordination among all parts of the supply chain; in
fact, the movement toward JIT is a key reason why supply chain management has become so crucial. Spainbased Zara is a global clothing and accessories retailer.
Zara’s competitive advantage is fast fashion, meaning
frequent introductions of new fashions that are made in
small batches, delivered quickly to stores, and stocked as
just-in-time inventory. It took just 25 days, for example,
for a black, high collar women’s wrap coat with a metal
ring to end up in Zara’s flagship store in New York City.
The inspiration for the coat started with a Zara designer
in Arteixo, Spain talking to store managers. The designer
took five days to create a design prototype, which was
handed over to a manufacturing pattern maker. Seamstresses at Zara’s suppliers worked for 13 days to produce
8,000 coats. Six days were needed for ironing, labeling,
quality checks, and transportation from Zara’s distribution center in Zaragoza, Spain to the Barcelona airport
to New York’s JFK airport,
and finally to the Zara’s
just-in-time (JIT)
Fifth Avenue store. Indusproduction
try analyst Anne Critchlow
A production system that
says, “Think of Zara not
emphasizes the production of
as a brand, but as speedy
goods to meet actual current
demand, thus minimizing the
chameleon that adapts inneed to hold inventories of
stantly to fashion trends.”36
finished goods and work in
JIT does have some
process at each stage of the
potential drawbacks. The
supply chain.
most serious problem is

Green practices aim to achieve
sustainability by finding ways to meet
the organization’s current objectives
while protecting and preserving the
environment.

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

and distribute their goods and services. Green practices include designing facilities to be more energy efficient; using renewable energy sources such as wind,
solar, or geothermal power when possible; making use
of recyclable materials; switching to paints, lubricants,
cleaning fluids, and solvents that are less harmful to
the environment; and even providing labeling to help
consumers find out which products are the most environmentally friendly. As part of a commitment to
reduce carbon emissions by 50% by 2020, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. is replacing 1.4 million lights with LEDs in
its 5,300 bank branches. Chase will cut its lighting costs
in half and use 184,000 fewer megawatts of electricity
each year.38
The long-term goal of many green practices is to
achieve sustainability, which means finding ways to meet
the organization’s current objectives while protecting
and preserving the environment for future generations.
One impediment to even greater acceptance of sustainability initiatives is that some sustainability efforts—such
as switching to renewable sources of energy—add to
costs. But many firms have found that other sustainability efforts can actually benefit the bottom line. A recent
study by Aberdeen Group, a well-known technology
research firm, found that firms employing best-in-class
sustainability practices not only saw an 8% drop in

sustainability-related costs but also experienced a 16%
increase in customer retention. 39
In the late 1990s, the International Organization for
Standardization developed a set of standards called ISO
14000. This new set of standards focuses on environmental management. As with ISO 9000, the term “ISO
14000” actually refers to a family of standards. The broadest
of these is ISO 14001. To receive ISO 14001 certification, a
firm must:
■■

demonstrate the ability to identify and control the
environmental impact of their activities;

■■

make a commitment to continually improve their
environmental performance; and

■■

implement a systematic approach to setting environmental targets and to achieving those targets.

It is important to note that ISO 14000 standards do
not establish specific goals for environmental performance;
doing so would be very difficult, since ISO is intended to
ISO 14000 A family of generic
be a generic set of standards
standards for environmental
that apply to all industries,
management established by the
and each specific industry
International Organization for
faces different environmenStandardization.
tal challenges.40

THE BIG PICTURE
Operations managers are responsible for
“putting it all together” by developing
and implementing the processes needed to produce goods
and services and distribute them to the target market. Their
decisions affect both revenues and costs, going a long way
toward determining whether a firm makes a profit or suffers
a loss.

goods and services in the most efficient manner. And they must
work effectively with human resource managers to attract and
develop workers who possess the knowledge and skills needed
to become world-class competitors. Operations managers must
even go beyond their own organization and work effectively
with the suppliers and distributors who comprise the firm’s
value chain.

The responsibilities of operations managers require them to
work closely with other managers throughout their organizations. For example, they must work with marketers and designers
to ensure that the desired goods and services move from the
drawing board to the final customer on time and within budget.
They must work closely with financial managers to ensure that
the company invests in the capital goods needed to produce

Operations managers must continuously adapt to changes in
technology and in competitive conditions. Key challenges in
recent years have centered on the need to continuously improve
product quality while finding ways to reduce costs and protect
the environment. You can expect the goals of becoming ever
leaner—and ever greener—to remain a major focus of operations managers in years to come.

CHAPTER 17: Operations Management: Putting It All Together
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

325

C AREERS IN OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT
Plant Supervisor
Responsible for supervising production and warehouse crews,
monitoring and maintaining a safe working environment,
timely completion of paperwork and records, keeping lines
of communication open between the plant, management,
scheduling, and sales, coordinating overtime and reviewing
production schedules to make sure each piece of equipment

STUDY TOOLS

has the appropriate manpower, and cross-training employees
for multiple tasks and jobs. The ideal candidate has a bachelor’s degree, two to four years of manufacturing experience,
strong interpersonal, communication, and team-building
skills, good analytical and problem-solving skills, ability to
analyze cost performance data to improve operations and
reduce costs, and be willing to work evenings, night shifts,
weekends, and holidays.

17

LOCATED AT BACK OF THE TEXTBOOK
■■

Rip-Out Chapter Review Card

■■

Gain unique perspectives on key concepts with new concept
videos in the e-book
Increase your comprehension with online homework and
quizzes

■■

326

■■

Study with existing flashcards and make your own

PART FIVE: Managing a Business
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Personal Finance
Appendix
LEARNING OBJECTIVES
After studying this appendix, you will be able to:
A-1

Apply the principles of budgeting to your personal finances

A-2

Identify strategies to help build a sufficient savings

A-3

Explain the importance of using credit wisely

A-4

Discuss key wealth-building principles and the financial instruments that may be
part of a wealth-building strategy

Unfortunately, two-thirds of us can’t pass a basic financial
literacy test (see how well you do on the National Financial Capability Study at http://www.usfinancialcapability.
org/quiz.php). Many struggle to calculate simple interest
on loans. Only 45% of our parents or guardians taught us
how to manage our finances. Only 31% of us have ever
been offered the chance to take a class in personal finance.
With financial illiteracy so widespread—and growing—it’s
not surprising that Americans report that money (61%),
work (58%), and the economy (50%) are significant sources
of stress.1
Personal financial management issues affect all of us,
young and old alike. How successfully we manage our
financial resources affects where we live, how well we
can provide for our families, and when (or perhaps even
if ) we’ll be able to retire comfortably. The financial decisions you make and the habits you develop now will affect
your personal and financial future. Let’s take a look at how
budgeting, building your
savings, managing your
budget (personal) A
credit, and investing wisely
detailed forecast of financial inflows
can help you meet your fi(income) and outflows (expenses)
nancial goals, and hopefully
to determine your net inflow or
reduce the money-related
outflow for a given period of time.
stress in your life.

328

PAGE 340
for additional

A-1

STUDY TOOLS

YOUR BUDGET

One of the first steps in getting control over your financial
situation is to develop a budget, which is a detailed forecast of your expected cash inflows (income) and cash outflows (expenditures). You can use your budget to develop
your financial plan and to monitor your progress toward
achieving your financial goals.
A-1a

How Do I Get Started?

You can get a good handle on what should be included
in your budget by carefully tracking and analyzing all of
your financial transactions for several months. This takes
discipline and careful record keeping, but once you know
where your money comes from and where it goes, you’ll
have what you need to prepare your budget.
There are many approaches to setting up your budget. If you don’t want to build your budget from scratch,
you can check out several online personal finance sites
that can help you get started.2 For example, after you link
your bank and financial accounts to Intuit’s Mint.com, the
online and app-based service will help you manage and
pay bills, budget, and keep track of your credit score and
investments. Northwestern Mutual’s Mint Grad (http://

APPENDIX: Personal Finance
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Rawpixel.com/Shutterstock.com

Remember to visit

www.themintgrad.org/), developed specifically for college
students and recent college grads, uses a four-step process
to help young adults master personal finance:
■■

Learn (budgeting, spending, investing)

■■

T ry it (quizzes, financial calculators, and budget
worksheets)

■■

 lan (setting goals for saving, building positive credit,
P
and paying down student debt)

■■

Online socializing (reading and discussing blog topics)

MassMutual Financial Group’s Society of Grownups
(https://www.societyofgrownups.com/) combines a range
of online classes, labs (financial calculators), and blogs
with face-to face classes and networking events. If you
want more bells and whistles—and more support—you
can purchase a commercial program such as Quicken,
­Moneydance, or AceMoney. Basic versions of these programs typically cost $40 to $75 and provide a wide range
of features, such as online banking services, financial calculators, and stock quotes. Most also give you the ability to export data into tax preparation software, making
tax filing much simpler. And if you prefer to work on the
go, most also have corresponding apps for smartphones
and tablets.

“The safe way to double your
money is to fold it once over
and put it in your pocket.”
— F R A N K “ K I N ” H U B B A R D , C A R T O O N I S T,
H U M O R I S T, A N D J O U R N A L I S T

If you are comfortable with Excel (or other spreadsheet software), another option is to build your own budget. Microsoft’s Templates and Themes for Office website
(https://templates.office.com) has Excel budget templates
for expenses, family budget planning, personal money
tracking, college budgeting, and academic club budgeting to help you get started. These templates are generic,
so you may want to tweak them to suit your own circumstances. You won’t get all of the features provided by the
commercial packages, but that isn’t necessarily a bad thing.
Some people actually find all of the bells and whistles in
the commercial applications overwhelming and prefer the
straightforward simplicity of a spreadsheet template. Also,
the process of “building” the budget yourself may give you
a sense of personal satisfaction and a greater appreciation
for the budget relationships than you’d get using online
sites or commercial software packages.
APPENDIX: Personal Finance

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

329

Assessing Revenues: Where Does My Money
Come From? A budget starts with a forecast of your
income—the money you bring in. This can come from
many different sources. For many people, the paycheck
from their job is their primary source of income. But the
major source of income for entrepreneurs may be the profits they earn from their businesses. Some people also derive a substantial amount of income from financial investments, such as stocks and bonds, while others earn rental
income. Retirees often depend on pensions, Social Security, and private investments for much of their income.

Assessing Expenses: Where Does It All Go?
Once you have identified the amount of income you expect
to receive from various sources, you can turn your focus to
the spending side of your budget. To set up your budget,
you’ll need to be very specific about where your money
goes. As we’ve already mentioned, carefully tracking your
expenditures over a period of several months can help you
identify your spending patterns. Many people who do this
are surprised by the habits they uncover. You may
find that you’re spending a lot more than you
thought on video games, music downloads,
or clothes. Once you discover your spending patterns, you’ll be in a better position
to determine the categories of spending
to include in your budget and to estimate
the amount you’ll spend in each category.
Mint.com, LearnVest, and YNAB (short for You
Need a Budget) stand out as useful expense
tracking tools.3 LearnVest links to your
financial accounts, so it can
track expenses and identify
spending trends in various
categories such as groceries, bills, clothes, and entertainment. LearnVest
even has an AddCash
button so you can categorize your cash expenses too. Although
Mint.com is free and

discretionary payments
Expenditures for which the
spender has significant control in
terms of the amount and timing.

nondiscretionary
payments Expenditures
that the spender has little or no
control over.

330

LearnVest uses a freemium model for basic services, YNAB
charges $5 a month or $50 a year (but you can try it free
for a month). Mint.com and LearnVest track your spending
and suggest budget levels based on that spending (which
might not work well if your spending is out of control), but
YNAB forces you to assign a spending or savings category
for every dollar that goes in and out of your hands—and
your various accounts. It has you assign budget goals for
each category, and then tracks your spending against
each budget goal. Though more complicated, YNAB forces
you to decide about your spending in order “to be intentional about what you want your money to do before you
spend it.”4

Understanding Your Spending Habits Your
expenditures can be classified into discretionary and nondiscretionary categories. The payments you have the most
control over are called your discretionary payments.
Perhaps you like dining out, nightclubbing, or shopping.
Perhaps you just have expensive taste in coffee. David
Bach, author of The Automatic Millionaire, challenges us to
look at our “latté factors,” meaning the little vices we
each find hard to resist. You’ll find that something
as seemingly minor as a $4 cup of coffee each
workday costs you $1,040 each year ($4 3 5 days
per week 3 52 weeks). Once you realize the true
cost of these “latté factors,” you’ll have a greater
incentive to bring them under control.5 Your
budget can be helpful in imposing the discipline
Pa
t hD
oc/
you need to accomplish this goal.
S
hu

t te

rst

ock

.co

Nondiscretionary payments

m

are those you have little control over,
such as your monthly rent or car
payment, which are set by contract. Your lifestyle may also
lock you into other costs that
are at least partly nondiscretionary. Given your need
to get to school and work,
you may have to spend
a significant amount
of money on gas and
car maintenance every
month. But with a little
flexibility and creativity,
you may find that such
costs aren’t ­
completely
nondiscretionary. For instance,
you might be able to significantly reduce your expenses for gas and car
maintenance by carpooling or using
public transportation.

APPENDIX: Personal Finance
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

You may also want to consider
holiday gifts, or a large down payyour attitude toward spending. Are
ment on a car or home. However,
“Rather go to bed
you most likely to spend too much
it’s even better to pay yourself first
without dinner than
money when you are depressed or
twice by automatically depositing
to rise in debt.”
stressed out? Look at this aspect
money into savings and retirement
carefully, and try to be as honest
accounts. Why twice? Retirement
—BENJAMIN FRANKLIN
as possible with yourself. The final
savings, discussed in section A-4e
thing you should consider is who
of this appendix, are often matched
you are with when you spend money. You may find that
dollar for dollar by employers. If you put in $500 a month,
you tend to spend much more money while hanging out
your employer doubles it to $1,000—and that’s before it
with certain friends.
grows through investing. The other advantage of retireAfter you have prepared your budget, you’ll need to
ment accounts is that the IRS usually adds a 10% penalty
keep track of your actual expenses and compare them to
for early withdrawals, which is enough to discourage most
your budget. And you’ll need to adjust your budget pepeople from trying to spend those funds.9 By contrast, savriodically to reflect significant changes in your lifestyle,
ings account are easily “raided” for impulsive, unplanned
employment status, and financial goals. It turns out that
spending.
spending money the “right way” increases personal hapInterest rates on savings accounts vary from bank to
bank, so you should shop around to find the best rate. In
piness. A study of 76,000 bank records matched to perrecent years, online savings banks have often provided
sonality dimensions shows that people are happiest when
6
higher interest rates than traditional banks. Just be sure to
spending their money on things that fit their personalities.
The study’s lead author, Sandra Matz, explained, “Money
look for reputable banks that are insured by the Federal
enables us to lead a life we want.”7 But without keeping
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). The FDIC is
close track of how you spend your money, you may end
an independent agency created by Congress to maintain
up spending it in ways—and amounts—that don’t fit
stability and public confidence in the nation’s financial syswho you are or your financial goals. Indeed, the study also
tem, primarily by insuring bank deposits. The FDIC insures
found that spending money in ways contrary to personalindividual deposits up to $250,000 per account in FDICity resulted in less happiness.
insured banks.10

A-2

YOUR SAVINGS: BUILDING
A SAFETY NET

A savings account is an interest-earning account that is
intended to satisfy obligations that your checking account
cannot handle. Think of your savings account as a “safety
net” for unexpected financial challenges, such as a major
plumbing repair, the need to replace your car’s transmission, or even the loss of your job. Many financial experts
suggest that you have enough money in your savings to
cover six months of your expenses. The good news is that if
you’re lucky enough to avoid major problems, your savings
account will earn you a bit of interest income.
One technique for establishing a sizable savings
­balance is to “pay yourself first.” This concept, popularized
by David Bach, suggests that you have a predetermined
amount from each paycheck automatically deposited into
your savings account. Once you’ve accumulated enough
in your savings account to provide an adequate safety
net, you can use the “pay yourself first” approach to
achieve other financial goals.8 For example, you can use
your savings account to accumulate funds for vacations,

A-3

YOUR CREDIT: HANDLE
WITH CARE!

Credit refers to your ability
to obtain goods or resources without having to make
immediate payment. One
of the most important determinants of the amount
of credit you can obtain is
your credit score, which
is a numerical indicator of
your creditworthiness. Currently, the most commonly
used credit scoring system
is the Fair, Isaac and Company (FICO) scale. The FICO
scale runs from 300 to 850.
Your individual FICO
score is based on several
factors, including your payment history, the amount

savings account An
interest-bearing account holding
funds not needed to meet regular
expenditures.
Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC) An
independent agency created by
Congress to maintain stability and
public confidence in the nation’s
financial system, primarily by
insuring bank deposits.

credit Allows a borrower to buy
a good or acquire an asset without
making immediate payment and
to repay the balance at a later
time.
credit score A numerical
measure of a consumer’s
creditworthiness.
APPENDIX: Personal Finance

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

331

EXHIBIT A.1 WHAT FICO CREDIT SCORES MEAN
Score

Creditworthiness

Below 500

Very poor

5.7%

500–599

Poor to below a­ verage

18.5%

600–699

Below average to fair

22.3%

700–799

Fair to good

35%

800 or Better

Excellent

18.6%

you owe, the type of credit used, and the length of time
you’ve held various credit accounts.11 As Exhibit A.1 shows,
about 57% of all Americans have scores between 600 and
800; only 5.7% have scores below 500, and 18.6% have
scores above 800. A high score makes it easier to get credit
on favorable terms.12 On a $250,000, 30-year fixed mortgage, a borrower with a below-average credit score of 620
will pay $87,422 more interest because of higher interest rates than a borrower with a fair to good credit score
of 780.13
A-3a

Credit Cards: Boon or Bane?

Now let’s look at a specific source of credit that is near and
dear to many college students’ hearts: the credit card. A
credit card allows its holder to make a purchase now and
pay the credit card issuer later.
There are several benefits to having and using credit
cards. The most obvious is that credit cards are more convenient and safer than carrying a lot of cash. Credit cards
also make it easy to track your expenditures, since you
have access to a monthly summary of charges. And many
cards offer perks, such as discounts on certain products,
extended warranties on purchases, or frequent-flier miles.
Another benefit of the responsible use of credit cards
credit card A card issued by
is that it can improve your
a bank or finance company that
credit score by allowing
allows the cardholder to make a
you to establish a history
purchase now and pay the credit
card issuer later.
of prompt payments. This
can make it easier for you
grace period The period of
to borrow money when
time that the credit card holder
has to pay outstanding balances
you really need it—such as
before interest or fees are
when you want to buy a car
assessed.
or your first home.
annual percentage
One downside of havrate (APR) The interest
ing a credit card is that the
expense charged on a credit
“buy now, pay later” aspect
card, expressed as an annual
of credit card use makes it
percentage.
hard for some people to

332

Percentage of Consumers

maintain financial discipline. Another problem is that interest rates on unpaid card balances tend to be very high.
Many card issuers also impose a variety of fees that can
make a noticeable dent in your wallet. And making late
payments or failing to pay what you owe can damage your
credit history, hurting your chances of getting additional
credit when you need it.
A-3b The Devil in the Details—

Understanding Your Credit Card
Agreement!

Before you accept a credit card, make sure you read the
credit card agreement and understand the main conditions for using that card. Some things to look for include:
■■

Grace period: The period of time that you have to
pay your balance before interest or fees are assessed.
Some credit card companies expect to receive their
payment within 21 days of the credit card statement
date. So, it becomes very important to get these bills
paid as soon as possible to avoid the interest and
other fees.

■■

APR (annual percentage rate): The percentage financing cost charged on unpaid balances.
The higher the APR, the greater your interest expense
on unpaid balances. Your credit card company
may charge ­different APRs for different types of
transactions.

■■

Late fees: May also be ­assessed if a payment is not
received within the grace ­period. Federal law now
caps late fees at $27 for a first ­offense and $38 for
additional late payments.14

■■

Other fees: Include annual fees (a charge just for
the privilege of having a card, whether you use it or
not), over-the-credit-limit fees if your charges exceed
your credit limit, and balance-transfer fees if you
transfer a balance from one card to another. This isn’t
a complete list, but it does reflect many of the most
common types of fees you might incur. Not all cards

APPENDIX: Personal Finance
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

are subject to all of these charges; the specific types
and amounts of fees can vary considerably from one
issuer to another—which is why reading the fine
print is important!
A-3c Protection for Consumers:

If you owe $5,000 on a credit card
but only make minimum payments,
you’ll be repaying for 273 months,
and pay $6,923 in interest!

New Laws and Regulations

com
ck .
rsto
t te
Shu
in /
uzm

Although many young adults manage their
credit cards without major problems, others are stunned when the credit card
bill arrives. Many never read their
credit card agreements, so they
are taken by surprise by
higher than expected interest charges and fees. Others
simply lack discipline. They
succumb to the temptations
of a “buy now, pay later” mentality and run up big bills that
they can’t afford to pay.

y_ K

The Need for Discipline

dr e

A-3d 
Using Credit Cards Wisely:

The first rule when you have credit card difficulties
is to “PUT THE CARD DOWN!” When you find yourself in
trouble, stop using the card so you don’t compound your
difficulties. Make sure you don’t use the card again until
you’ve gotten your spending habits under control. If you’re
struggling to put the credit card down, use a task app
or a reminder app to bolster your new spending habits.
Researchers have found that when simple messages like
“Don’t swipe the small stuff. Use cash when it’s under $20”
are sent via email twice a month, displayed as a banner ad
on one’s banking Web site, and written on a refrigerator
magnet, consumers spend 2% less over six months’ time.18
Activating alerts for daily spending summaries or purchases over a certain amount can also do wonders. The idea is
to use reminders and alerts to strengthen your commitment to putting the card down.
Once you’ve eliminated the temptation to dig a
deeper hole, the next step is to make sure you consistently
pay a substantial amount each month toward retiring the
debt on that card. Given how high APRs are on the unpaid
balances for most credit cards, it is usually a good idea to
place a very high priority on eliminating these balances as
quickly as possible.
If you just can’t seem to shake the habit of overspending, consider using cash or a debit card instead of a credit card. Although a debit card looks like a credit card, there
is a big difference. When you use a debit card, money is immediately withdrawn from your bank account, so you “feel
the pain” just as if you’d paid in cash. Many
people spend less when they
use cash or debit cards than
when they use credit cards.

An

Two recent laws have had a significant impact on credit
card practices. The Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (often called the CARD Act)
requires issuers to give a 45-day notice before making significant changes to credit agreements and prohibits them
from raising interest rates on existing balances unless the
borrower is more than 60 days late in making required payments. It also requires anyone under the age of 21 who
applies for a credit card to either verify proof of income or
have an adult cosign the application. And it places caps on
certain types of fees that credit card issuers can charge.15
New laws and regulations have changed the way
many financial markets operate in recent years. The DoddFrank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of
2010, passed in the wake of the financial crisis of 2008 and
2009, includes several provisions intended to protect the
financial rights of consumers. One key provision of this Act
is the establishment of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to eliminate confusing and potentially
deceptive banking practices related to mortgages, credit
cards, and other loan agreements.16 The CFPB also makes
it easier for consumers to compare the features and costs
of various credit cards so that they can select the ones that
best meet their needs. In addition to the creation of the
CFPB, the Dodd-Frank Act also requires lenders, insurance
companies, and others who reject your application to provide you with a free copy of your credit score.17

— B A N K R AT E . C O M

debit card A card issued
by the bank that allows the
customer to make purchases
as if the transaction involved
cash. In a debit card purchase,
the customer’s bank account is
immediately reduced when the
purchase is made.
APPENDIX: Personal Finance

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

333

EXHIBIT A.2

G ROWING YOUR INVESTMENT: STARTING EARLY MAKES A DIFFERENCE

Monthly Savings

20

Starting Age
30

40

50

$30

$158,236

$68,816

$28,531

$10,381

$60

$316,472

$137,633

$57,062

$20,762

$90

$474,709

$206,449

$85,592

$31,143

$120

$632,945

$275,266

$114,123

$41,525

$150

$791,181

$344,082

$142,654

$51,906

Note: Figures in the table show the amount accumulated at age 65. Results are based on an assumed annual rate of return of 8% compounded monthly.

YOUR INVESTMENTS: BUILDING
FOR THE FUTURE

The reason for this result is that, over time, you earn
interest not only on the money you directly invest but
also on the interest you’ve earned in previous years—a
process known as compounding. The earlier you begin
investing, the more powerful the compounding effect
Investing involves reducing consumption today in order
becomes. By the time an investor reaches age 65, any
to acquire assets that build future wealth. In a very real way,
dollars invested at age 20 have
investing is like the concept of sowbeen compounded for a very long
ing and reaping. A farmer plants a
“The best time to plant
time, resulting in a big increase
seed (makes an investment) in ana tree was 20 years
in the nest egg. The message of
ticipation of a harvest (return) that
ago. The next best
Exhibit A.2 is clear: an early start to
will be much larger than the seed
investing can lead to dramatically
that was planted. When it comes to
time is now.”
more money when it comes time
investing, early is better than late—
—CHINESE PROVERB
to retire.
but late is better than never.

A-4

A-4a Building Wealth: The Key

Is Consistency—And an Early Start!

Don’t talk yourself out of investing just because you don’t
have much to invest. Even if you start with a small amount,
your wealth will eventually grow to a significant amount as
long as you stick with it. And the earlier you start, the better
off you’ll be. To see this, take a look at Exhibit A.2, which compares how big your retirement nest egg will be at age 65 for
different monthly investment amounts beginning at different ages (and assuming you earn an annual return of 8%).
A 30-year-old who invests $60 per month will end up with
$137,633 at age 65. Compare this to someone who begins
investing $60 per month at age 20, and the results are startling. The investor who starts at age 20 only directly invests
$7,200 more ($60 per month for 120 more months) than the
investor who starts at age
30. But the earlier investor
investing Reducing
ends up with a nest egg of
consumption in the current time
$316,472—almost $179,000
period in order to build future
more than that of the inveswealth.
tor who started at age 30.

334

Financial Securities: What Are My Investment
Options? Now that we’ve demonstrated the importance of investing, let’s look at some specific types of financial instruments you might want to include in your investment portfolio. Our brief discussion can’t hope to cover
all of the possibilities, so we’ll focus only on some of the
most common choices. Keep in mind that, in addition to
the financial instruments we describe in this section, many
people also hold much of their wealth in other assets. The
largest single asset for many households is the equity they
have in their home.
Let’s begin by looking at common stock, which represents ownership in a corporation. Common stock offers
the possibility of two types of financial returns. The first,
called a dividend, is a distribution of ­profits paid out to the
stockholders. Dividends are paid only if the corporation’s
board of directors declares them—and there is no legal
requirement for them to do so. If a corporation is in poor
financial shape, its board of directors may decide that it is
unable to pay a dividend. But even if a company is highly
profitable, its board may decide to reinvest (retain) its profits rather than pay dividends to stockholders.

APPENDIX: Personal Finance
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

income taxes. But the biggest single issuer of government
securities is the federal government. The U.S. Treasury
markets a variety of securities, from long-term bonds that
mature in 30 years to short-term treasury bills (popularly
called “T-bills”) that can mature in as little as four weeks.
Historically, securities issued by the federal government
have been viewed as very safe investments. But in recent
years, the rapid growth in federal debt has led some securities rating services to question this view.20
Certificates of deposit are offered by banks and other
depository institutions like credit unions. They are similar
to savings accounts but are issued for a fixed term—which
could be as short as three months or as long as five years.
The rate of interest paid on CDs is often higher than the
rate on a regular savings account but usually lower than
the interest rate on corporate bonds and most government securities. CDs with longer maturities typically earn a
higher interest rate than CDs that have shorter terms. You
can cash in a CD before it matures, but you’ll incur a substantial penalty if you do.
One advantage of CDs is that they are insured by the
FDIC. Because of this insurance and their predictable rate
of return, CDs are considered to be among the safest investment options. The trade-off is that they offer lower returns than most other types of investments.

HTeam/Shutterstock.com

Investors can earn a second type of return, called a
capital gain, if the market price of their stock rises relative
to the price they paid for it. But stock prices can go down
as well as up—as many investors have painfully discovered
in recent years! Thus, it is possible for investors to experience capital losses as well as capital gains. For example,
while the average compound return from S&P 500 stocks
was 9.83% a year from January 1988 to February 2017, the
S&P 500 suffered a compound loss of –6.63% from March
2004 to March 2009.19 Clearly, investing in common stock
entails a significant degree of risk. But historically the average rate of return on stocks has been better than the return on many other types of investments.
In addition to common stock, some corporations also
offer another type of stock, called preferred stock. The two
types of stock have some important differences. From the
perspective of many investors, the most i­mportant distinction is that owners of preferred stock are more likely to receive a dividend than owners of common stock. Preferred
stock is normally issued with a stated dividend, and common stockholders can’t be paid any dividend until the preferred dividend is paid in full. Still, even preferred stockholders have no guaranteed legal right to receive a dividend.
A corporate bond is another type of corporate security,
but it is quite different from stock. A bond is a formal IOU
issued by a corporation. While stockholders are the owners
of a corporation, bondholders are its creditors. Most bonds
are long-term debts that mature (come due) 10 to 30 years
after they are issued, though bonds with shorter and longer maturities are sometimes issued.
As creditors, bondholders are legally entitled to receive
interest payments from the issuing corporation every year
until the bond matures, and to receive an amount known
as the principal (or “face value”) when the bond matures.
But bondholders don’t have to hold their bonds until they
mature. Like stocks, bonds can be bought and sold on securities markets, and their price can rise and fall. So, like stockholders, bondholders can experience capital gains or losses.
Because the issuing corporation is legally required to
pay interest and principal on a fixed schedule, the returns
on bonds are more predictable than returns on stocks.
However, even bonds pose some risk. During the recent
economic downturn, many firms defaulted on (failed to
make) their legally required bond payments.
Government securities are IOUs issued by government
entities when they borrow money. As with corporate
bonds, government securities normally pay their holders
a stated rate of interest until they mature. State and local
governments often issue bonds. In fact, many investors
like to invest in municipal bonds because interest income
earned on these bonds is usually exempt from federal

For many users today, a mobile app
may be the most intuitive way to start
investing. According to financial advice
website NerdWallet, E-Trade and TD
Ameritrade offer the best all-around
mobile stock trading apps—for a price.
Robinhood offers the best commissionfree trading, while Acorns and Stash
provide the best hands-off investing
experience for new investors.

APPENDIX: Personal Finance
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

335

336

APPENDIX: Personal Finance
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

iStock.com/svetikd

Mutual funds sell shares to investors and
pool the resulting funds to invest in financial instruments such as corporate stocks, corporate
bonds, government securities, or other assets.
Some mutual funds invest mainly in bonds,
others invest mainly in stocks, and others in
government securities. Some invest in specific
sectors of the economy, such as technology,
energy, or healthcare, while others invest in
broader portfolios.
Many mutual funds are professionally
managed, with the fund’s manager selecting
the specific securities that the fund will hold.
This professional management appeals to
many investors who don’t have the time or expertise to evaluate investment alternatives. But
Full-service brokers provide financial planning,
it is also expensive—mutual funds charge fees
tax advice, and research to identify good investment
to cover the cost of managing the fund and to
opportunities.
meet other expenses. Investors must pay these
fees even if the funds perform poorly.
Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) are similar to mutual
In recent years, competition among brokerage firms
funds in that they represent ownership in a broad portfohas
blurred
the distinction between full-service and dislio of securities. However, unlike most mutual funds, they
count
brokers.
Many full-service firms have lowered their
are bought and sold just like shares of corporate stock.
commissions, while many discount brokers have begun
ETFs are a relatively new investment vehicle (first maroffering investment advice and other services. Most major
keted in 1993), but they have become quite popular in
brokerage firms now offer their clients both discount and
recent years.
full-service options.
Robo advisors are a third option for acquiring and
A-4b Acquiring Financial Assets:
managing
financial assets. These automated advisors help
The Role of a Broker
people set, track, stick to (that’s the hard part), and eventually achieve their financial goals. Wealthfront and BetterInvestors normally acquire many of their financial assets,
ment, two of the largest robo advisor services, use comincluding shares of common and preferred stocks, corputer algorithms to automatically invest clients’ wealth in
porate bonds, and certain other financial assets (such as
a way that maximizes returns and minimizes taxes. Based
ETFs), by purchasing them in securities markets. However,
on criteria set by the user, these services automatically deindividual investors can’t directly participate in these marposit bank funds into retirement accounts each month;
kets. Instead, they normally rely on the services of a brokerretrieve and then invest extra cash that would otherwise
age firm to buy and sell securities.
not earn a return; and rebalance stock portfolios by sellWhen choosing a broker, it’s important to consider
ing fast-moving stocks (capturing the gains) and investing
both the costs and the level of service. In addition to carin underweighted (and perhaps cheaper) stocks. Not only
rying out your trades, a full-service broker provides a wide
do robo advisors do all this automatically and based on
range of services—such as research to identify good inindividualized financial goals, they do so with lower anvestment opportunities, financial planning, and tax advice.
nual fees than traditional advisors. Robo advisors typically
Most full-service brokerage firms charge commissions
charge 0.25% to 0.50% of assets, compared to 1% to 2%
based on the dollar value of the orders their clients place.
among human advisors.21
They also charge fees for the services they provide. In conBefore entrusting a brokerage firm with your financial
trast, discount brokers buy and sell securities for their clients
transactions,
you should check out its background. The
but offer few additional services. The commissions and
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority’s (FINRA’s) Brofees charged by discount brokers are usually significantly
kerCheck website (http://www.finra.org/Investors/Tools
lower than those of full-service brokers. Many discount
Calculators/BrokerCheck/) is a good place to start. This site
brokerage firms charge flat fees of a few dollars per trade
offers very detailed background information on more than
for simple transactions.

A-4c Building a Portfolio:

A Few Words about
Diversification, Risk,
and Return

The financial securities we’ve described are not mutually exclusive. It is possible—and usually
desirable—to invest in a diversified financial portfolio consisting
of a variety of stocks, bonds, CDs,
government securities, and other
assets.
The main advantage offered by
diversification is that it reduces your risk. If
you put a large part of your wealth into one specific investment, you could be wiped out if that investment goes
sour. If you invest in several different assets, then losses in
some are likely to be offset by gains in others. But diversification also has a downside—it not only reduces risk but
also reduces the possibility of earning exceptionally high
returns.
One widely accepted financial principle is that a
trade-off exists between risk and return; in other words,
investments with the potential for generating high returns
tend to be riskier than investments that offer lower returns.
For example, stock prices sometimes decline sharply, so
investing in stocks is considered quite risky. But historically, the long-run average return on stocks has been significantly higher than the average return on bonds, which
offer safer, more predictable returns.
In general, younger investors are less concerned
about risk than older investors. When you are young,
you have more time to recover from adverse results, so
you may be willing to take more risks and be more aggressive in pursuit of higher returns. If you invest mostly
in stocks when you are young, and the stock market
crashes, you still have time to recoup your losses and
take advantage of future increases in stock prices. But
older investors who hold a lot of stock might find that
the same crash wiped out much of the wealth just when
they were counting on it to supplement their retirement income. Older investors often become more conservative, adjusting their portfolio to include a greater
percentage of relatively safe assets such as government
securities, bonds of corporations with strong credit ratings, and CDs.

A-4d But What Is My Best

Investment? (Hint: Look
in the Mirror!)

So far, we have focused on investing
in financial assets. But in many ways,
the most important investment you
can make is in yourself, by devoting
your time, effort, and money to your
education, training, health, and fitness. The Bureau of Labor Statistics
reports that the median weekly
earnings of high-school graduates
in the fourth quarter of 2016 was
$698, while for workers with bachelor’s
degrees, the figure was $1,161—a difference of $463.22 Over a typical worker’s 40-year
career, this amounts to a difference in earnings of over $963,000! And higher education
not only increases your income, it also gives you more job
security. In 2017, the unemployment rate for workers with
a high-school education was 5.3% while the unemployment rate for workers with at least a bachelor’s degree
was 2.5%.23

kirill_makarov/Shutterstock.com

1.3 million current and former FINRA-registered
brokers and more than 17,400 FINRA-registered
brokerage firms.

Strategies to Become More Marketable One
way to increase your marketability and your starting salary
is to secure an internship during your college years. Such
internships usually offer little or no monetary compensation, but they pay off in other ways. They give students
a chance to gain firsthand experience that supplements
what they learn in the classroom and helps them determine whether a specific career is right for them. And the
internship experience looks great on a résumé. But in 2010,
the U.S. Department of Labor issued a ruling that makes
it more difficult for profit-seeking firms to offer unpaid or
low-wage internships. Many educators, business leaders,
and politicians have called on the Department of Labor to
modify its stance to make internships easier to establish.
But unless and until such modifications are adopted, internships may remain difficult to find.24

Other Work Opportunities Don’t despair if you are
unable to secure an internship. There are other ways to
gain experience in your field of interest. Consider taking a
(gulp) pay cut from your temporary job to get experience
in your career field. Or perhaps consider doing volunteer
work in that field—not only will you be doing a good
deed, you’ll also be learning the ropes in your chosen field.
Taking a temporary pay cut to gain relevant work experience often pays for itself many times over when you leave
college and pursue a full-time position.
APPENDIX: Personal Finance

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

337

Planning for Your Retirement

One of the most important reasons people invest is to build up a nest egg for retirement.
While your retirement might seem like
it is a long way off, investing for your
golden years now can really pay off,
since it allows you to take advantage
of the compounding effects we
talked about earlier.
One of the most popular ways
to build wealth for retirement is
to set up an individual retirement
account, or IRA. There are several
types of IRAs; the two most popular
are the traditional IRA and the Roth
IRA. Both types of IRAs are individual
investments—you make the decisions
about how much to invest (subject to maximum allowable contributions) and what specific investments to
make. You can put your IRA money into stocks, government securities, CDs, mutual funds, or other types of financial securities.
Both traditional and Roth IRAs offer tax advantages
intended to provide an incentive for people to invest for
their retirement. But the nature and timing of the tax advantages are different. With a traditional IRA, the contributions you make reduce your taxable income in the same
tax year, and the earnings on your contributions are tax
deferred, allowing them to grow more rapidly.25 But you
must pay taxes on the money received from a traditional
IRA when you begin making withdrawals. On the other
hand, the contributions you make to a Roth IRA are not
tax deductible at the time
you make them, but earnIRA An individual retirement
ings on these contributions
account that provides tax benefits
are tax-free, and you pay no
to individuals who are investing
taxes on the distributions
for their retirement.
you receive from a Roth IRA
401(k), 403(b), and 457
after you retire.
plans Employee payrollOne drawback to both
deduction retirement plans that
traditional and Roth IRAs is
offer tax benefits.
that the amount that indicompany matching
viduals can contribute each
An amount contributed by the
employer to an employee’s
year is relatively small. In
retirement account, matching the
2016, the maximum conemployee’s retirement contributions
tribution for both types of
either dollar-for-dollar or based
plans was $5,500. (Individuon a percentage of each dollar
als over the age of 50 could
contributed by the employee.
contribute up to $6,500.)

338

The 401(k), 403(b), and 457 plans are
employee-­contribution retirement plans that are named
for the sections of the IRS tax code where they are
described. These plans are similar in many respects;
the main differences are in who qualifies for
each type of plan. The 401(k) plans are
offered to employees of private-sector
businesses, while 403(b) plans are for
employees of certain types of nonprofit
organizations such as schools, religious organizations, and charities.
The 457 plans are primarily for
state and local government employees and nonprofit organizations. Some employees in the nonprofit sector qualify for both 403(b)
and 457 plans.
Unlike IRAs, all of these plans are
implemented through a payroll-deduction
process. Also, these plans have much higher contribution
limits than traditional and Roth IRAs. In 2017, for example,
employees could contribute up to $18,000 in a 401(k) plan,
with individuals over 50 allowed to contribute up to an additional $6,000 if their employer’s plan contained a “catchup” provision.26 Other potential advantages of these plans
include:
■■

■■

Tax advantages: Any income employees invest
in traditional 401(k), 403(b), and 457 plans is tax
deductible, and the earnings on these investments
are tax deferred. This reduces current taxes and
allows the funds to grow more rapidly. However,
retirees must pay taxes on funds distributed from
their fund when they make withdrawals. As with
IRAs, there are Roth versions of these plans. Employees who choose the Roth version pay taxes on
the income they contribute, but earnings on these
contributions and distributions after retirement are
tax exempt.

Company matching: Some employers match
employee contribution either dollar for dollar or with
a percentage of each dollar you contribute up to a
limit. This can be a big advantage of these plans over
IRAs. If your company matches your 401(k) or 403(b)
or 457 contributions, you should consider contributing as much as you can up to the maximum your
company will match—it’s like getting free money for
your ­retirement.

There are also some important restrictions on these
plans. First, not all employers offer these plans. Second,
if your employer does offer a plan that offers matching

APPENDIX: Personal Finance
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Nattika/Shutterstock.com

A-4e Investing for the Long Term:

Venmo Me—But Don’t Be a Jerk!
Venmo is a PayPal service that allows roommates, people
sharing dinner, family members, and friends to share payments
via an app—all without cash. Just link Venmo to your bank
account or credit card, then “Venmo” money to a recipient
using a phone numbers or email address—a Venmo account
isn’t needed to receive payments. If you’d like, you can post the
payment to a social feed with commentary like “Here’s my half
of the rent, roomie!” or “This is the last time I bail you out of
jail!” Venmo is free when using your bank account, debit card, a
prepaid card, or your Venmo balance. Use your credit card with
Venmo, however, and you’ll be charged a standard 3% fee.

me herself.” Similarly, suppose Coworker C invites Coworker D for
coffee, only to send a $3.79 Venmo request afterward (ignoring
the office guideline that the person issuing the invitation pays)!
While Venmo makes it easy for everyone to pay their share,
Paul warns not to put Venmo’s convenience before friendship.
“Buying a round of drinks, when you can afford it is a nice
gesture and an increasingly lost art. And if you forgot your
wallet on a trip to the coffee shop, I don’t want you to send me
$4.25. It’s my treat—just get me back next time.”27

College Junior Caitlin McGorry explains why Venmo is so convenient: “When you’re paying someone back with cash, it takes
longer. You have to find time to go to the ATM, then find time to
meet up, and then you start to feel bad it’s taking so long to get
your money back, so Venmo is easier and makes you feel better
because you’re paying someone back immediately.”

EpicStockMedia/Shutterstock.com

Bloomberg/Getty Images

But according to Quartz Media’s Kari Paul, Venmo is “turning our
friends into petty jerks.” She cites the example of Friend A, who
shared some wine at Friend B’s house during an evening of Netflix
binge-watching . . . only to be Venmoed a request from Friend
B for $6, or half the cost of the wine. Friend A said, “I couldn’t
believe she was charging me for the glass of wine she poured

A key to a comfortable retirement is to start saving early.
APPENDIX: Personal Finance
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

339

contributions, you won’t be
entitled to all of the matching funds unless you’ve
remained employed with
the company for a stated
period of time called the

vesting period A specified
period of time for which an
employee must work for an
employer in order to receive the
full advantage of certain
retirement benefits.

vesting period. The length of time for full vesting varies
depending on the employer, but it is usually several years.
Finally, keep in mind that these are retirement plans. There
are restrictions on withdrawing the money in these plans
prior to retirement, and you may pay significant penalties
if you do.

THE BIG PICTURE
Making sound personal financial decisions
requires careful thought and discipline.
You should start by establishing a budget; doing so will help
you understand your current financial situation, plan for the
future, and monitor your progress toward achieving your
goals. One of your first goals should be to set aside enough
savings to provide adequate protection against unforeseen
financial challenges. One good strategy to build your savings
is to “pay yourself first.” Another key to financial success is

STUDY TOOLS

to make careful decisions with respect to your use of credit
cards and other forms of credit. Next, you should turn your
attention to investing to build your wealth over time. You’ll
discover many different investment opportunities, each
with its own pros and cons. No single investment strategy
is foolproof, but two principles that have stood the test of
time are (1) start investing early to take full advantage of
compounding, and (2) diversify your investments to protect
against risk.

APPENDIX

LOCATED AT BACK OF THE TEXTBOOK
■■

Rip-Out Chapter Review Card

■■

Gain unique perspectives on key concepts with new concept
videos in the e-book
Increase your comprehension with online homework and
quizzes

■■

340

■■

Study with existing flashcards and make your own

APPENDIX: Personal Finance
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

ENDNOTES
1
1. “10 Trends for 2015, December 2014 Trend
Briefing,” Trendwatching.com, “slide 7” http://
trendwatching.com/trends/10-trends-for-2015
/#slide-7, accessed February 1, 2015; Ian Altman,
“Top 10 Business Trends That Will Drive Success
in 2016,” December 1, 2015, Forbes, http://www
.forbes.com/sites/ianaltman/2015/12/01/top-10
-business-trends-that-will-drive-success-in-2016
/#45212d2a5571, accessed January 25, 2016; Tracey
Lien, “‘Ridiculous and Amazing’ Slack Messaging
App Keeps Human Users in Mind,” Los Angeles
Times, October 23, 2015, http://www.latimes.com
/business/technology/la-fi-slack-butterfield-fun
-20151022-story.html, accessed January 25, 2016.
2. “5 Consumer Trends for 2017,” Trendingwatching,
http://trendwatching.com/trends/5-trends-for-2017/,
accessed January 17, 2017.
3. Leonid Bershidsky, “Here Comes Generation Z,”
Bloomberg, June 18, 2014, https://www.bloomberg
.com/view/articles/2014-06-18/nailing-generation-z,
accessed January 17, 2017; Elizabeth Segran, “Your
Guide to Generation Z,” Fast Company, September
8, 2016, https://www.fastcompany.com/3062475/most
-creative-people/your-guide-to-generation-z-the
-frugal-brand-wary-determined-anti-millen, accessed
January 17, 2017.
4. “Improving Labor Market Could Be Cause of
Drop in Total New Business Creation Rate in 2012,”
Kauffman Foundation, March 17, 2013, http://www
.kauffman.org/newsroom/2013/04/entrepreneurial
-activity-declines-as-jobs-rise-in-2012-according-to
-kauffman-report, accessed February 2, 2015.
5. Cheryl Chumley, “Lululemon Athletica Chairman
Quits After Firestorm Over His Fat-Thighs Comment,”
Washington Times, December 10, 2013, http://www
.washingtontimes.com/news/2013/dec/10/lululemon
-athletic-wear-chair-quits-over-firestorm/, accessed
January 11, 2014.
6. “The Biggest Corporate Blunders of 2013,”
CNBC, http://www.cnbc.com/id/101283178/page/2,
accessed February 2, 2015.
7. Lindsay Friedman, “The 12 Worst Social-Media
Fails of 2016,” Entrepreneur, September 22, 2016,
https://www.entrepreneur.com/slideshow/272286,
accessed January 23, 2017.
8. “Mistakes in Advertising,” English Learning
Network, http://www.learnenglish.de/mistakes
/HorrorMistakes.html, accessed February 2, 2015.
9. “State of Entrepreneurship Address,” Kauffman
Foundation, January 19, 2010, http://www.kauffman
.org/newsroom/entrepreneurs-expect-to-limit-hiring
-in-2010-according-to-new-kauffman-foundation
-poll.aspx, accessed January 13, 2011.
10. Leonard Jacobs, “On the Nonprofit Sector and
Community Solutions Act of 2010,” The Clyde Fitch
Report, June 18, 2010, http://www.clydefitchreport
.com/2010/06/introducing-hr-5533-the-nonprofit-sector
-and-community-solutions-act-of-2010/, accessed
January 16, 2011; Suzanne Perry, “7.2% of Americans
work for nonprofit groups, study finds,”

The Chronicle of Philanthropy, December 19,
2006, http://philanthropy.com/free/update
/2006/12/2006121901.htm, accessed January 19,
2009; Amy Butler, “Wages in the Nonprofit Sector:
Management, Professional, and Administrative
Support Occupations,” Bureau of Labor Statistics,
October 28, 2008, http://www.bls .gov/opub/cwc
/cm20081022ar01p1.htm, accessed January 19, 2008;
“Occupational Employment and Wages, 2007,”
Bureau of Labor Statistics, May 9, 2008, http://www
.bls.gov/news.release/pdf/ocwage.pdf, accessed
January 19, 2009; Todd Cohen, “Nonprofit sector
needs to be better understood,” Inside Philanthropy
Blog, Philanthropy Journal, February 22, 2010,
http://philanthropyjournal.blogspot.com/2010
/02/nonprofit-sector-needs-to-be-better.html, accessed
March 23, 2010.
11. Ian Altman, “Top 10 Business Trends that Will
Drive Success in 2016,” Forbes, December 1, 2015,
http://www.forbes.com/sites/ianaltman/2015/12/01
/top-10-business-trends-that-will-drive-success-in
-2016/#45212d2a5571, accessed January 25, 2016;
“Seth Godin’s Rules for Marketing in the New
Economy,” SAS, http://www.sas.com/en_us/insights
/articles/marketing/seth-godins-rules-for-marketing
-in-the-new-economy.html, accessed January 25,
2016.
12. “GNI Per Capita 2007,” World Bank Data,
October 17, 2008, http://siteresources.worldbank
.org/DATASTATISTICS/Resources/GNIPC.pdf,
accessed January 19, 2009; “East and Southeast
Asia: China,” The World Factbook, CIA,” updated
December 18, 2008, https://www.cia.gov/library
/publications/the-world-factbook/geos/ch.html,
accessed January 19, 2009; “Central Asia: Russia,”
The World Factbook, CIA, updated December 18,
2008, https://www.cia.gov/library/publications
/the-world-factbook/geos/rs.html, accessed
January 19, 2009; “East and Southeast Asia:
Hong Kong,” The World Factbook, CIA”, updated
December 18, 2008, https://www.cia.gov/library
/publications/the-world-factbook/geos/hk.html,
accessed January 19, 2009.
13. “American Customer Satisfaction Index,
2011 Results,” ACSI, http://www.theacsi.org
/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id
=12&Itemid=110, accessed January 14, 2012.
14. Joanna Glasner, “Why Webvan Drove Off a
Cliff,” Wired News, July 10, 2001, http://www
.wired.com/techbiz/media/news/2001/07/45098.
15. Steven Levy, “Honey, I Shrunk the iPod.
A lot.,” Newsweek magazine, September 19, 2005;
John Boddie, “Behind Apple’s strategy: Be second
to market,” Harvard Business School Working
Knowledge, August 29, 2005, http://hbswk.hbs.edu
/item.jhtml?id=4970&t=technology; John Letzing,
“What’s to Become of Microsoft’s Answer to the
iPod?,” Marketwatch, July 29, 2009, http://www
.marketwatch.com/story/microsofts-zune-continues
-to-struggle-2009-07-29, accessed April 1, 2010.
16. See note 15 above.
17. Andrew Chamberlain, “Does Company Culture Pay Off? Analyzing Stock Performance of ‘Best

Places to Work’ Companies,” GlassDoor, March
2015, https://glassdoor.app.box.com/s/49y1ulkftvbps
bqjgeo1zh3lvijbb9uo, accessed January 29, 2016.
18. “Baby Boomers Retire,” Pew Research Center,
January 17, 2011, http://pewresearch.org/databank
/dailynumber/?NumberID =1150, accessed January 11,
2011.
19. Aza Wee Sile, “PwC’s Dennis Nally Says Global
Economy, Geopolitical Tensions Are CEOs’ Top
Worries,” CNBC, January 20, 2016, http://www
.cnbc.com/2016/01/20/pwcs-dennis-nally-says
-global-economy-geopolitical-tensions-are-ceos
-top-worries.html, accessed January 28, 2016;
Geoff Colvin, “This Is What CEOs Are Worrying
About the Most,” Fortune, November 3, 2015,
http://fortune.com/2015/11/03/ceos-worry-uber
-syndrome/, accessed January 28, 2016.
20. Jeffrey Grau, “Retail E-Commerce Update,”
eMarketer, December 2008, http://www.emarketer
.com/Reports/All/Emarketer_2000545.aspx, accessed January 19, 2009; David Kaplan, “eMarketer:
E-Commerce Expected to Grow Double Digits
through 2012,” PaidContent, March 17, 2011, http://
paidcontent.org/article/419-emarketer-e-commerce
-expected-to-grow-double-digits-through-2012/,
accessed January 15, 2012.
21. “In Trendy World of Fast Fashion, Styles Aren’t
Made to Last,” NPR, March 11, 2013, http://www
.npr.org/2013/03/11/174013774/in-trendy-world
-of-fast-fashion-styles-arent-made-to-last, accessed
February 3, 2015; Shannon Whitehead, “5 Truths
the Fast Fashion Industry Doesn’t Want You to
Know,” The Huffington Post, October 14, 2014,
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/shannon-whitehead
/5-truths-the-fast-fashion_b_5690575.html, accessed
February 3, 2015.
22. “U.S. Census Bureau Projections Show a
Slower Growing, Older, More Diverse Nation a
Half Century from Now,” Census Bureau Press
Release, December 12, 2012. http://www.census
.gov/newsroom/releases/archives/population/cb12
-243.html, accessed January 9, 2013; “Net Migration from Mexico Falls to Zero and Perhaps Less,”
Pew Hispanic Center Report, 2012, http://s3
.documentcloud.org/documents/346357/mexican
-migration.pdf, accessed January 9, 2013; Jeffrey
S. Passel and D’Vera Cohn, “U.S. Population
Projections: 2005–2050,” Pew Research Center,
February 11, 2008, http://pewhispanic.org/files
/reports/85.pdf, accessed January 17, 2011.
23. “New Mexico QuickFacts,” U.S. Census,
December 6, 2012, http://quickfacts.census.gov/qfd
/states/35000.html; “Mississippi QuickFacts,” U.S.
Census, December 6, 2012, http://quickfacts.census.
gov/qfd/states/28000.html; “Hawaii QuickFacts,” U.S.
Census, December 6, 2012, http://quickfacts.census.
gov/qfd/states/15000.html, all accessed January 9, 2013;
“State and County Quick Facts,” Mississippi, U.S.
Census Bureau, last revised February 23, 2010, http://
quickfacts.census.gov/qfd/states/28000.html, accessed
March 30, 2010; “Hawaii’s Asian Population at 55% is
Highest Proportion in Nation,” Hawaii 24/7, May 1,
2009, http://www.hawaii247.org/2009/05/01/hawaiis

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

341

-asian-population-at-55-is-highest-proportion-in
-nation/, accessed March 30, 2010; “State and County
Quick Facts, New Mexico,” U.S. Census Bureau, last
revised February, 23, 2010, http://quickfacts.census.
gov/qfd/states/35000.html, accessed March 30, 2010.
24. “Lynx Helped Panasonic Become a Major Player
in the Hispanic Market,” Lynx Hispanic Marketing
Case Studies, 2013, http://www.lynxhispanicmarketing
.com/case-studies/panasonic.php, accessed January 9,
2013; “Translating Hispanic Marketing Into Shareholder Value,” Hispanic PR Wire/Business Wire,
December 4, 2006, http://www.hispanicprwire.com
/print.php?l =in&id=7660; Andrew Adam Newman,
“Kraft Aims Kool-Aid Ads at a Growing Hispanic
Market,” The New York Times, May 26, 2011, http://
www.nytimes.com/2011/05/27/business /media/27adco
.html, accessed January 16, 2012; Elli Bishop, “6
Brands That Succeed at Understanding Hispanic
Marketing,” Business to Community, October 7, 2014,
http://www.business2community.com/marketing
/6-brands-succeed-understanding-hispanic-marketing
-01030311, accessed January 29, 2016.
25. “Diversity Awareness,” Hershey Foods
Corporation, https://www.hersheysjobs.com/Career
/ControlPanel.aspx?ModuleCategoryID=1999999,
accessed October 4, 2005.
26. “Attitudes of Young People Toward Diversity,”
CIRCLE fact sheet, February 2005, http://www
.civicyouth.org/PopUps/FactSheets/Attitudes
% 202.25.pdf.
27. “U.S. Census Bureau Projections Show a
Slower Growing, Older, More Diverse Nation a Half
Century from Now,” Census Bureau Press Release,
December 12, 2012, http://www.census.gov
/newsroom/releases/archives/population/cb12-243
.html, accessed January 9, 2013; “China Seeks Ways
to Manage Ageing Population Crisis,” BBC News,
September 21, 2012, http://www.bbc.co.uk/news
/world-asia-china-19662365, accessed January 9,
2013; Jeffrey S. Passel and D’Vera Cohn, “U.S.
Population Projections: 2005–2050,” Pew Research
Center, February 11, 2008, http://pewhispanic.org
/files/reports/85.pdf, accessed January 17, 2011;
Toshiko Kaneda, “China’s Concern Over Population
Aging and Health,” Population Reference Bureau,
http://www.prb.org/Articles/2006/ChinasConcern
OverPopulation AgingandHealth.aspx, accessed
January 17, 2011.
28. Taylor Soper, “Amazon, Google Employees
Ranked as ‘least loyal,’” GeekWire, July 24, 2013,
http://www.geekwire.com/2013/amazon-googleemployees-ranked-least-loyal/#disqus _thread,
accessed January 9, 2014; Sue Shellenbarger,
“Pending Job Flexibility Act Received Mixed Reviews,”
WSJ Career Journal, http://www.careerjournal.com
/columnists/workfamily/20010426-workfamily.html,
accessed October 4, 2005; Les Christie, “Bad Attitudes
in the Workplace,” CNNMoney, September 6, 2005,
http://money.cnn.com/2005/08/24/pf/workplace
_morale/?section=money_pf; John Ellis, “Inspiring
Worker Loyalty One Tough Job,” East Bay Business
Times, July 1, 2005, http://www.bizjournals.com
/eastbay/stories/2005/07/04/focus1.html; Laura
Petrecca, “Employee Loyalty Is at a Three-Year Low,”
USA Today, March 28, 2011, http://www.usatoday
.com/money/workplace/2011-03-26-employees-less
-loyal.htm, accessed January 16, 2012.
29. “Sustainability: Balancing Opportunity and Risk
in the Consumer Products Industry, 2007 Report,”
Deloitte, http://www.deloitte.com/dtt /cda/doc/
content/us_cb_sustainability-study_june2007opt.
pdf, accessed January 20, 2009; Sarah Fister Gale,
“While Everything Else Stops, Green Still Means

342

Go,” Green-Biz, January 19, 2009, http://www
.planetthoughts.org/?pg=pt/Whole&qid=2675,
accessed June 1, 2011.
30. Marc Weirsum, “China’s Manufacturing Wages
Rise to $7,000 Per Year: Baidu Benefits,” Market
Realist, April 22, 2014, http://marketrealist.com
/2014/04/chinas-manufacturing-wages-rise-7000
-per-year-baidu-benefits/, accessed February 5,
2015; “Wages in China,” China Labour Bulletin,
June 10, 2013, http://www.clb.org.hk/en/content
/wages-china, accessed January 10, 2014; Keith
Bradsheir, “Even as Wages Rise, China Exports
Grow,” The New York Times, January 9, 2014, http://
www.nytimes.com/2014/01/10/business/international
/chinese-exports-withstand-rising-labor-costs.html
?hpw&rref=business&_r=0, accessed January 10,
2014; “United States Average Hourly Wages in
Manufacturing,” Trading Economics, January 11,
2014, http://www .tradingeconomics.com/united
-states/wages-in-manufacturing, accessed January 10,
2014; Louis Uchitelle, “Factory Jobs Gain But Wages
Retreat,” The New York Times, December 29,
2011, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/30/business/us
-manufacturing-gains-jobs-as-wages-retreat.html
?pagewanted=all, accessed January 9, 2013; David
Luhnow and Bob Davis, “For Mexico, an Edge on
China,” The Wall Street Journal, September 16,
2012, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10000872396
390444318104577587191288101170.html, accessed
January 9, 2013; Dexter Roberts, “How Rising
Wages Are Changing the Game in China,” BusinessWeek, March 27, 2006, http://www.businessweek
.com/magazine/content/06_13/b3977049.htm,
accessed January 20, 2009; Richard McCormack,
“Good Luck Competing Against Chinese Labor
Costs, Mfg. Job Growth in China Is Headed Up,
Not Down; 109 Million Mfg. Workers in China
Dwarfs Number in U.S.,” Manufacturing and
Technology News, May 2, 2006, http://www
.manufacturingnews.com/news/06/0502/art1.html,
accessed January 20, 2009; Scott Tong, “Cost of
Chinese Labor Is on the Rise,” Marketplace, July 6,
2007, http://marketplace.publicradio.org/display
/web/2007/07/06/cost_of_chinese_labor_is_on_the
_rise/, accessed January 20, 2009; Judith Banister,
“Manufacturing in China Today: Employment and
Labor Compensation,” The Conference Board,
September 2007, http://www.conference-board.org
/economics/workingpapers.cfm, accessed January
20, 2009; Bill Powell, “The End of Cheap Labor in
China,” Time magazine, June 26, 2011, http://www
.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,2078121,00
.html, accessed January 16, 2012.
31. Jason Beaubien, “Asian tsunami devastates Sri
Lankan fishing industry,” NPR, Morning Edition,
January 10, 2005, http://www.npr.org/templates/story
/story.php?storyId=4276161; Sally Pook, “Phuket
tourism industry crippled by mass cancellations,”
Cyber Diver News Network, January 8, 2005,
http://www.cdnn.info/news/travel/t050111.html;
Veronique de Rugy, “Homeland security scuffle,”
National Review, October 15, 2004, http://www
.nationalreview.com/comment/rugy 200410150840
.asp; “Bush brushes aside rebuilding cost concerns,”
Reuters News Service, MSNBC, September 19,
2005, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/9374106/.
32. Daniel Pink, “Pomp and Circumspect,” The
New York Times, June 4, 2005, http://select.nytimes.
com/gst/abstract.html?res=F60C1FFD3F5C0C778
CDAF0894DD404482.
Pg. 14 Fact: http://www.thedailybeast.com/newweek
/2007/12/22/the-rise-of-a-fierce-yet-fragile-superpower
.html, accessed November 2012.

2
1. “B–1.—Gross Domestic Product, 1959–2008,
Economic Report of the President: 2009 Spreadsheet Tables,” Government Printing Office, updated January 14, 2009, http://www.gpoaccess.gov
/eop/tables09.html, accessed January 20, 2009.
2. “How Much Is a Trillion Dollars?,” The Mansfield
North Central Ohio Tea Party Association, http://
americaneedsyounow.org/howmuch.htm, accessed
July, 2013.
3. “U.S. Foreclosure Activity Decreases 14 Percent
in June to Lowest Level Since December 2006 Despite 34 Percent Jump in Judicial Scheduled Foreclosure Auctions,” RealtyTrac, July 11, 2013, http://
www.realtytrac.com/Content/foreclosure-market
-report/midyear-2013-us-foreclosure-market-report
-7794, accessed January 12, 2014; Amy Hoak,
“More Foreclosures Expected in 2011,” The Wall
Street Journal, December 12, 2010, http://online
.wsj.com/article/SB1000142405274870351860457
6014011451160994.html?mod=googlenews_wsj,
accessed January 24, 2011; RealtyTrac Staff, “RealtyTrac’s James J. Saccacio to Discuss Foreclosure
Crisis Fallout at AFSA State Government Affairs
Forum,” RealtyTrac, October 1, 2008, http://www
.realtytrac.com/ContentManagement/pressrelease.
aspx?ChannelID=9&ItemID=5284&a ccnt=64847,
accessed January 22, 2009; RealtyTrac Staff,
“REALTYTRAC® Year-end Report Shows Record
2.8 Million U.S. Properties With Foreclosure
Filings in 2009,” RealtyTrac, January 14, 2010,
http://www.realtytrac.com/contentmanagement
/pressrelease.aspx?itemid=8333, accessed April 21,
2010; “RealtyTrac: 2011 National Foreclosure
Rate Lowest Since 2007,” Commercial Record,
January 12, 2012, http://www.commercialrecord.
com/news148166 .html, accessed January 18, 2012;
CoreLogic National Foreclosure Report, CoreLogic,
January 2014, http://www.corelogic.com/research
/foreclosure-report/national-foreclosure-report
-january-2014.pdf, accessed February 6, 2015.
4. Chris Isidore, “7.9 Million Jobs Lost—Many Forever,” CNNMoney, July 2, 2010, http://money.cnn
.com/2010/07/02/news/economy/jobs_gone_forever
/index.htm, accessed January 24, 2011.
5. Credit Crisis—The Essentials, The New York
Times, updated January 20, 2009, https://www
.nytimes.com/topic/subject/economic-crisis-and
-market-upheavals, accessed January 20, 2009;
Sharon Silke Carty and Barbara Hagenbaugh,
“Automakers Say If They Go, Millions of Jobs Will
Vanish,” USA Today website, http://www.usatoday.
com/money/autos/2008-11-17-automakers-bailout
-impact_N.htm, accessed January 21, 2009; “Auto
Industry Bailout Overview,” The New York Times,
updated January 20, 2009, http://topics.nytimes
.com/topics/reference/timestopics/subjects/c/credit
_crisis/index.html, accessed January 21, 2009.
6. Jackie Calmes, “TARP Bailout to Cost Less Than
Once Anticipated,” The New York Times, October
1, 2010, http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2010/10/01
/tarp-bailout-to-cost-less-than-once-anticipated/.
7. Michael Grunwald, “One Trillion Dollars,”
January 26, 2009, Time, pp. 27–31, http://www.time
.com/time/politics/article/0,8599,1871769,00.html,
accessed February 5, 2011; Jeannine Aversa and
Christopher S. Rugaber, “Economy Adds Jobs at
Fastest Pace in Three Years,” Associated Press, April 2,
2010, http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article
/ALeqM5gNiyJ905Ho0Ur96V2TQhsBX19lGwD9
ER6P402, accessed April 20, 2010; Greg Robb,

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

September “Bernanke Declares ‘recession is very
likely over,’” MarketWatch, September 15, 2009,
http://www.marketwatch.com/story/bernanke
-declares-the-recession-over-2009-09-15, accessed,
April 20, 2010; Eric Morath, “Jobs Report: Solid Job
Gains Belie Economic Unease,” The Wall Street
Journal, November 7, 2014, http://www.wsj.com
/articles/jobs-report-economy-adds-214000-jobs
-1415367269, accessed May 5, 2016.
8. Jeanne Sahadi, “Debt Ceiling FAQs: What
You Need to Know,” CNN Money, May 18, 2011,
http://money.cnn.com/2011/01/03/news/economy
/debt_ceiling_faqs/index.htm, accessed January 20,
2013; Michael Grunwald, “Cliff Dweller,” Time,
January 14, 2013, http://www.time.com/time
/magazine/article/0,9171,2132749,00.html,
accessed January 20, 2013.
9. Rebecca Blumenstein and Natalia Drozdiak,
“Airbus to Join Forces with Uber for On-Demand
Helicopter Service, CEO Says,” The Wall Street
Journal, January 18, 2016, http://www.wsj.com
/articles/airbus-to-join-forces-with-uber-for-on
-demand-helicopter-service-ceo-says-1453048668,
accessed January 25, 2017.
10. Mike Juljenz, “A Message to Obama and Congress: Kill the Cent and Save a Pretty Penny,” Money
News, September 1, 2013, http://www.moneynews.
com/MikeFuljenz/penny-cent-circulation-money
/2013/09/01/id/523353, accessed January 15, 2014;
Amy Bowen, “Is the Penny Going Away? Not Yet,”
USA Today, March 3, 2013, http://www.usatoday
.com/story/news /nation/2013/03/02/penny-not
-going-away-yet/1958995/, accessed January 15,
2014; “M1 Money Stock,” Economic Research
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, https://research
.stlouisfed.org/fred2/series/M1, accessed May 10,
2016.
11. “Historical Changes of the Target Federal
Funds and Discount Rates,” Federal Reserve Bank
of New York, http://www.newyorkfed.org/markets
/statistics/dlyrates/fedrate.html, accessed January
22, 2009.
12. “Workers on tap,” The Economist, January 3,
2015, http://www.economist.com/news/leaders
/21637393-rise-demand-economy-poses-difficult
-question-workers-companies-and, accessed
February 8, 2015.
13. Steven Levitt, “Scarecrows Work on People
Too,” Freakonomics, June 28, 2006, http://
freakonomics.com/2006/06/28/scarecrows-work-on
-people-too/, accessed February 7, 2016.
14. “OK Federal Government, Excluding Postal
Services,” U.S. Department of Labor Bureau of
Labor Statistics, March 12, 2008, http://stats.bls.
gov/oco/cg/cgs041.htm, accessed August 16, 2008;
“Postal Service Workers,” U.S. Department of
Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics, December 18,
2007, http://stats.bls.gov/oco/ocos141.htm, accessed
August 16, 2008; “Job Opportunities in the Armed
Forces,” U.S. Department of Labor Bureau of
Labor Statistics, December 18, 2007, http://stats.bls
.gov/oco/ocos249.htm, accessed August 16, 2008.
15. Daniel J. Mitchell, “Russia’s Flat Tax Miracle,”
The Heritage Foundation, March 24, 2003, http://
www.heritage.org/Press/Commentary/ed032403.
cfm; Deroy Murdock, “Russians Do Taxes Right,”
National Review Online, March 1, 2002, http://www
.nationalreview.com/murdock /murdock030102.
shtml; “Russia: Income Taxes and Tax Laws,”
Worldwide-Tax, July 2005, http://www.worldwide
-tax.com/russia/russia_tax .asp; “History of the U.S.
Tax System,” U.S. Department of the Treasury, https://

www.treasury.gov/resource-center/faqs/Taxes/Pages
/historyrooseveltmessage.aspx, accessed May 21, 2017.
16. Tim Montgomerie, “Has the World Lost Faith
in Capitalism?,” The Wall Street Journal, November
6, 2015, http://www.wsj.com/articles/has-the-world
-lost-faith-in-capitalism-1446833869, accessed
February 4, 2016.
17. “Gross Domestic Product,” Economic Research, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, https://
research.stlouisfed.org/fred2/series/GDP, accessed
May 10, 2016.
18. “Labor Force Statistics from the Current Population Survey,” Bureau of Labor Statistics, http://
data.bls.gov/timeseries/LNU04000000?years
_option=all_years&periods_option=specific
_periods&periods=Annual+Data, accessed
January 14, 2014; Rana Foroohar, “The Flat
Paycheck Recovery,” Time Magazine, January 13,
2014, http://content.time.com/time/magazine/article
/0,9171,2161670,00.html, accessed January 14,
2014. Leslie Kwoh, “News and Trends in Management,” The Wall Street Journal, February 13, 2012,
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970
204642604577215372010543642.html, accessed
January 21, 2013; Jeevan Vasagar, “Graduates
Warned of Record 70 Applicants for Every Job,” The
Guardian, July 6, 2010, http://www.guardian.co.uk
/education/2010/jul/06/graduates-face-tougher-jobs
-fight, accessed January 26, 2011.
19. “Labor Force Statistics from the Current Population Survey: Unemployment Rate Table,” U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, http://
data.bls.gov/PDQ/servlet/SurveyOutputServlet?data
_tool=latest_numbers&series_id=LNS14000000,
accessed January 22, 2009.
20. “Table of Historical Inflation Rates by Month
and Year (1914–2013),” U.S. Inflation Calculator,
January 16, 2013, http://www.usinflationcalculator
.com/inflation/historical-inflation-rates/, accessed
January 21, 2013.
Pg. 26 Fact: Rana Foroohar, “Open the Door and
Let ’Em In,” Time Magazine, July 22, 2013, http://
content.time.com/time/magazine/article
/0,9171,2147289,00.html, accessed September 2014.
Pg. 34 “Fact: Parents Projected to Spend $245,340
to Raise a Child Born in 2013, According to USDA
Report,” USDA News Report, August 18, 2014,
http://www.usda.gov/wps/portal/usda/usdahome?c
ontentidonly=true&contentid=2014/08/0179.xml,
accessed September 2014.

3
1. “The World Economy Overview,” The World
Factbook, CIA, February 2011, https://www.cia
.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook
/geos/xx.html, accessed February 5, 2011; “Global
Economic Outlook 2012,” The Conference Board,
January 2012, http://www.conference-board.org
/data/globaloutlook.cfm, accessed February 2, 2012;
“World Economic Situation and Prospects 2014:
Global Economic Outlook (Chapter 1),” United
Nations, December 18, 2013, http://www.un.org/en
/development/desa/publications/wesp2014-firstchapter
.html, accessed February 22, 2015.
2. “Rank Order Estimates,” The World Factbook,
CIA, https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-worldfactbook/rankorder/2003rank.html?countryName=In
dia&countryCode=in&regionCode=sas&rank=35#in,
https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world

-factbook/rankorder/2003rank.html?countryName
=Algeria&countryCode=ag&regionCode=afr&rank
=139#ag, https://www.cia.gov/library/publications
/the-world-factbook/rankorder/2119rank.html?country
Name=Angola&countryCode=ao&regionCode
=afr&rank =59#ao, all accessed January 22, 2013.
3. Adam Davidson, “Why Are Corporations
Hoarding Trillions?,” New York Times Magazine, January 20, 2016, https://www.nytimes.
com/2016/01/24/magazine/why-are-corporations
-hoarding-trillions.html?_r=0, accessed January 27,
2017; Jeff Cox, “US Companies Are Hoarding $2.5
Trillion in Cash Overseas,” CNBC, September 20,
2016, http://www.cnbc.com/2016/09/20/us
-companies-are-hoarding-2-and-a-half-trillion
-dollars-in-cash-overseas.html, accessed January 27,
2017.
4. “Global Firms Are Surprisingly Vulnerable to
Attack,” The Economist, January 28, 2017, http://
www.economist.com/news/leaders/21715660
-global-firms-are-surprisingly-vulnerable-attack
-multinational-company-trouble, accessed
February 1, 2017.
5. “China GDP Annual Growth Rate,” Trading
Economics, http://www.tradingeconomics.com
/china/gdp-growth-annual, accessed January 27,
2017.
6. Natasha Lomas, “ABI: Africa’s Mobile Market
to Pass 80% Subscriber Penetration in Q1 Next
Year; 13.9% of Global Cellular Market by 2017,”
TechCrunch, November 28, 2012, http://techcrunch
.com/2012/11/28/abi-africas-mobile-market-to-pass
-80-subscriber-penetration-in-q1-next-year-13-9-of
-global-cellular-market-by-2017/, accessed January
24, 2013; Pia Heikkila, “1B Cell Phone Users and
no Apple iPhone in India’s Breakneck Mobile-Apps
Market,” International Business Times, September
15, 2012, http://www.ibtimes.com/1b-cellphone
-users-and-no-apple-iphone-indias-breakneck
-mobile-apps-market-789460, accessed January 24,
2013; Sumnina Udas, “Bringing Toilets and Dignity
to India’s Poor,” CNN, September 17, 2012, http://
www.cnn.com/2012/09/17/world/asia/india-open
-toilets-udas/index.html, accessed January 24, 2013.
7. “Insperiences,” Trendwatching, http://www
.trendwatching.com/trends/insperience.htm,
accessed January 12, 2006; “Ten Key Trends for
Chocolate Products,” Food and Drink Europe,
January 23, 2012, http://www.foodanddrinkeurope
.com/Consumer-Trends/10-key-trends-for
-chocolateproducts?utm_source =copyright&utm
_medium=OnSite&utm_campaign=copyright,
accessed February 3, 2012.
8. “WTO Sees Gradual Recovery in Coming
Months Despite Cut in Trade Forecasts,” WTO press
release, September 19, 2013, http://www.wto.org
/english/news_e/pres13_e/pr694_e.htm, accessed
January 16, 2014; “Trade to expand by 9.5% in 2010
after a dismal 2009,” WTO press release, March 26,
2010, http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/pres10_e
/pr598_e.htm, accessed February 9, 2010; “The
World Economy: Overview,” The World Factbook,
CIA, updated February 2010, https://www.cia
.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/geos
/xx.html, accessed February 9, 2010; “Economy,”
The World Factbook, CIA, January 26, 2012, https://
www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook
/geos/xx.html, accessed February 3, 2012; “Falling
Import Demand, Lower Commodity Prices Push
Down Trade Growth Prospects,” WTO press
release, September 30, 2015, https://www.wto.org
/english/news_e/pres15_e/pr752_e.htm, accessed
March 2, 2016.

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

343

9. Emily Chasan, “Currency Cost U.S. Companies
at Least $4 Billion in Second Quarter,” The Wall
Street Journal, September 19, 2013, http://blogs
.wsj.com/cfo/2013/09/19/currency-cost-u-s
-companies-at-least-4-billion-in-second-quarter
/, accessed January 16, 2014; Paul Ausick, “P&G
Only One of Many Hit by Foreign Exchange Rates
(PG, PEP, KMB, CL, KO, PM, MCD, F, CCL),”
24/7, The Wall Street Journal, June 20, 2012,
http://247wallst.com/2012/06/20/pg-only-one-of
-many-hit-by-foreign-exchange-rates-pg-pep-kmb
-cl-ko-pm-mcd-f-ccl/, accessed January 25, 2013.
10. Neha Gupta, “What Is Countertrade?,” Barter
News Weekly, March 11, 2010, http://www
.barternewsweekly.com/2010/03/11/what-is-counter
-trade-1851/, accessed February 10, 2010; Dan
West, “Countertrade—An Innovative Approach to
Marketing,” Chairman American Countertrade Association, BarterNews 36 (1996), http://barternews
.com/approach_marketing.htm; Global Offset and
Countertrade Association, http://www.globaloffset.
org/index.htm, accessed January 27, 2006.
11. Ellen Barry, “Have Car, Need Briefs? In Russia,
Barter Is Back,” The New York Times, February 8,
2009, http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/08/world
/europe/08barter.html?pagewanted=all, accessed
January 25, 2013.
12. Calum Macleod, “Greenpeace: China-made
Kids’ Clothes Carry Toxic Risk,” USA Today,
December 17, 2013, http://www.usatoday.com
/story/news/world/2013/12/17/china-toxic-clothing
-greenpeace/4049853/, accessed January 16, 2014;
“Mattel Issues New Massive China Toy Recall,”
Associated Press, MSNBC, August 14, 2007, http://
www.msnbc.msn.com/id/20254745/ns/business
-consumer_news/, accessed February 10, 2010;
Eric S. Lipton and David Barboza, “As More Toys
Are Recalled, Trail Ends in China,” The New York
Times, June 19, 2007, http://www.nytimes.com/2007
/06/19/business/worldbusiness/19toys.html, accessed
January 29, 2009.
13. E. Yellin, Your Call Is (Not That) Important
to Us (New York: Simon Schuster, 2009); Carolyn
Beeler, “Outsourced Call Centers Return, to U.S.
homes,” NPR, August 25, 2010, http://www.npr
.org /templates/story/story.php?storyId=129406588,
accessed February 10, 2010.
14. Heesun Wee, “More Businesses Exporting ‘Made
in USA’ Again,” CNBC, May 12, 2014, http://www
.cnbc.com/id/101646468, accessed March 2, 2015.
15. Robert Guest, “Generation Uphill,” The Economist, January 23, 2016, http://www.economist.com
/news/special-report/21688591-millennials-are
-brainiest-best-educated-generation-ever-yet-their
-elders-often, accessed January 27, 2017; “Global
Unemployment Rate from 2007 to 2012 with a
Forecast up to 2017,” Statista, https://www.statista.
com/statistics/279777/global-unemployment-rate/,
accessed February 1, 2017.
16. Stacy Meichtry and John Stoll, “Fiat Nears
Stake in Chrysler That Could Lead to Takeover,”
The Wall Street Journal, January 20, 2009, http://
online.wsj.com/article/SB1232385194 59294991
.html, accessed February 10, 2010; “eBay to acquire
Skype,” press release, Skype, September 12, 2005,
http://www.skype.com/company/news/2005/skype
_ebay.html, accessed February 10, 2010.
17. David Barboza, “Intel to Build Advanced
Chip-Making Plant in China,” The New York
Times, March 27, 2007, http://www.nytimes.com
/2007/03/27/technology/27chip.html, accessed
January 30, 2009.

344

18. Cynthia Churchwell, “Rethink the value of
joint ventures,” Harvard Business School Working
Knowledge, May 10, 2004, http://hbswk.hbs.edu
/item.jhtml?id=4113&t=globalization.
19. Michael Schuman, “Hyundai Grows Up,” Time
Global Business, July 2005, http://www.time.com
/time/globalbusiness/article/0,9171,1074141,00.
html; Cathie Gandel, “At 5 Feet 10 Inches, I Was Too
Tall for Tokyo,” My Turn, Newsweek, December 12,
2005; Moon Ihlwan, “Hyundai Bets Big on India
and China,” BusinessWeek, January 30, 2008, http://
www.businessweek.com/globalbiz/content/jan2008
/gb20080130_061205.htm, accessed January 30,
2009; “Maruti, Hyundai, Tata Motors Lose Market
Share to Smaller Firms in 2010,” India Times,
April 10, 2011, http://economictimes.indiatimes.
com/automobiles/maruti-hyundai-tata-motors
-lose-market-share-to-smaller-firms-in-2010-11
/articleshow/7932281.cms, accessed February 6, 2012.
20. “Rural Market India Brand Equity Foundation,” IBEF, December 10, 2010, http://www
.ibef.org/artdispview.aspx?art_id=27581&cat
_id=938&in=78, accessed February 10, 2010;
“Selling to Rural India,” Springwise Newsletter,
June 2003, http://www.springwise.com/newbusiness
ideas/2003/06/shakti.html; “Red herring: selling
to the poor,” The Next Practice, April 11, 2004,
http://www.thenextpractice.com/news/red_herring
_selling_to_the_poor.php; Tim Weber, “Are you
ready for globalization 2.0?,” BBC News, January
28, 2005, http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business
/4214687.stm.
21. Ted Burnham, “What Pizza Hut’s Crown
Crust Pizza Says about Global Fast Food Marketing,”
NPR, May 2, 2012, http://www.npr.org/sections
/thesalt/2012/05/01/151781785/what-pizza-huts
-crown-crust-pizza-says-about-global-fast-food
-marketing, accessed January 25, 2013; Nina
Africano, “McDonald’s International: Top Ten
Most Unusual Around the World,” AOL Travel,
September 3, 2010, http://news.travel.aol
.com/2010/09/03/mcdonald-s-international-top
-ten-most-unusual-around-the-world/, accessed
January 25, 2013; “McDonald’s country/market
sites,” http://www.mcdonalds.com./countries
.html, accessed February 10, 2011; Domino’s
Pizza LLC [US], http://www.dominos.com/Public
-EN/Site+Content/Secondary/Inside+Dominos
/Pizza+Particulars/International+Speciality
+Toppings/; Robyn Lee, “10 Crazy Asian Pizzas,”
http://slice.seriouseats.com/archives/2008/02
/crazy-weird-asian-pizza-crusts-japanese-koreanhong-kong.html, accessed May 21, 2017; Editors
of Publications International, “Favorite Pizza
Toppings in 10 Countries,” How Stuff Works
Lifestyle, http://recipes.howstuffworks.com
/fresh-ideas/dinner-food-facts/favorite-pizza
-toppings-in-10-countries.htm, accessed May 21,
2017; William Mellor, “McDonald’s No Match
for KFC in China as Colonel Rules Fast Food,”
Bloomberg, January 26, 2011, http://www
.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-26/mcdonald-s
-no-match-for-kfc-in-china-where-colonel-sanders
-rules-fast-food.html, accessed February 6, 2012;
Erik German, “Morocco Loving the McArabia,”
Global Post, May 30, 2010, http://www.globalpost.
com/dispatch/morocco/090825/morocco-loving
-the-mcarabia, accessed February 6, 2012.
22. “Internet World Stats,” http://www.internetworldstats.com/stats.htm, accessed January 28, 2016.
23. World Bank, Doing Business 2017: Equal
Opportunity for All (Washington, DC: World
Bank). DOI: 10.1596/978-1-4648-0948-4. License:

Creative Commons Attribution CC BY 3.0 IGO,
accessed January 28, 2017.
24. Will Sarni, “Water Works,” Interbrand, 2012,
http://www.interbrand.com/en/best-global-brands
/Best-Global-Green-Brands/2012-Report/water
-works.aspx, accessed January 26, 2013; 2030: Brian
Dumaine, “China’s Coming Water Crisis,” Fortune
magazine, December 14, 2012, http://tech.fortune
.cnn.com/2012/12/14/2030-chinas-coming-water
-crisis/, accessed January 26, 2013; “WaterFacts,”
Water.Org, 2012, http://water.org/water-crisis/water
-facts/water/, accessed January 26, 2013.
25. “Shadow Market: 2011 Global Software Piracy
Study,” Business Software Alliance, May 2012,
http://portal.bsa.org/globalpiracy2011/downloads
/study_pdf/2011_BSA_Piracy_Study-Standard.pdf,
accessed January 26, 2013.
26. Wayne Ma, “China Levies 6.5% Tariff on U.S.
Solar-Panel Materials,” The Wall Street Journal,
September 18, 2013, http://online.wsj.com/news
/articles/SB1000142412788732352700457907907057
2200630, accessed January 19, 2014; John W. Miller,
“Nations rush to establish new barriers to trade,”
The Wall Street Journal, February 6, 2009, http://
online.wsj.com/article/SB123388103125654861.html,
accessed January 26, 2013; William Mauldin, “U.S.
Moves to Impose Tariffs on Chinese Tires,” The Wall
Street Journal, November 24, 2014, http://www.wsj
.com/articles/u-s-moves-to-impose-tariffs-on
-chinese-tires-1416866855, accessed March 2, 2015.
27. Richard Mills, “USTR Releases 2002 Inventory
of Trade Barriers,” press release, Office of the
United States Trade Representative, April 2, 2002,
https://ustr.gov/archive/Document_Library/Press
_Releases/2002/April/USTR_Releases_2002
_Inventory_of_Trade_Barriers.html; “U.S. Targets
Non-tariff Barriers to Global Trade,” press release,
Washington File, April 2, 2002, https://wfile.ait.org
.tw/wf-archive/2002/020402/epf212.htm.
28. “Debt Relief Under the Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries Initiative,” Fact Sheet, International
Monetary Fund, January 10, 2013, http://www.imf
.org/external/np/exr/facts/hipc.htm, accessed
January 26, 2013; “Debt Relief Under the Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative,” Factsheet, International Monetary Fund, December 16,
2010, http://www.imf.org/external /np/exr/facts/hipc
.htm, accessed February 11, 2010.
29. Daniel Workman, “Top 10 Exporting Countries
Causing the US Trade Deficit,” Suite101, April 27,
2010, http://www.suite101.com/content/top-10
-exporting-countries-causing-the-us-trade-deficit
-a226747, accessed February 11, 2011.
30. Eric Ting, “How a 20% Import Tax Could
Affect California’s Mexican Imports and Exports,”
San Francisco Gate, January 27, 2017, http://www
.sfgate.com/politics/article/How-Trump-s-proposed
-import-tax-will-impact-10887801.php, accessed
January 31, 2017; “California Passes France As
World’s 6th-Largest Economy,” June 18, 2016,
http://fortune.com/2016/06/17/california-france
-6th-largest-economy/, accessed January 31, 2017.
31. “European Union,” The World Factbook, The
Economy Overview: CIA, February 2011, https://
www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world
-factbook/geos/ee.html, accessed February 11,
2011.
32. Julie Kollewe, “IMF Says Refugee Influx
Could Provide EU Economic Boost,” The Guardian, January 20, 2016, http://www.theguardian.com
/business/2016/jan/20/imf-refugee-influx-provide
-eu-economic-boost, accessed March 10,2016; Jon

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Stone, “The Refugee Crisis Is Actually Having
“Sizable” Economic Benefits in European Countries, EU Says,” The Independent, November 5,
2015, http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world
/europe/the-refugee-crisis-will-actually-have-a
-sizable-positive-economic-impact-on-european
-countries-eu-a6722396.html#gallery, accessed
March 10, 2016.
33. Steven Erlanger, “‘Brexit’: Explaining
Britain’s Vote on European Union Membership,”
The New York Times, June 16, 2016, http://www
.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/world/europe/britain
-european-union-brexit.html?_r=1, accessed
July 31, 2016; Everrett Rosenfeld, “Brexit 101:
What Just Happened, and Why It’s Important for
Americans,” June 24, 2016, http://www.cnbc.com
/2016/06/24 /brexit-101-what-just-happened-and
-why-its-important-for-americans.html, accessed
July 31, 2016.
34. Rebecca Flood, “REVEALED: Which Countries Could Be Next to Leave the EU?,” Express,
October 2, 2016, http://www.express.co.uk/news
/world/716421/EU-referendum-Brexit-leave-vote
-country-Merkel-superstate-Italy, accessed
January 31, 2017.
Pg. 41 Fact: Sumnima Udas, “Bringing Toilets and
Dignity to the Poor,” CNN, September 17, 2012,
http://www.cnn.com/2012/09/17/world/asia/india
-open-toilets-udas/index.html, accessed November
2012.
Pg. 42 Fact: Stephen Gandel, “This Time for
Africa?”, Time magazine, November 1, 2010, http://
content.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,
2026897,00.html, accessed October 19, 2016.
Pg. 51 Fact: Anup Shah, “Causes of Poverty,”
Global Issues, http://www.globalissues.org/issue/2
/causes-of-poverty, accessed November 2012.

4
1. Davey Alba, “Judge Rejects Uber’s $100 Million
Settlement with Drivers,” Wired August 18, 2016,,
https://www.wired.com/2016/08/uber-settlement
-rejected/f, accessed March 25, 2017; Biz Carson,
“Judge Grants Class-action Status to Uber Drivers
Who Are Suing to Be Classified as Employees,”
BusinessInsider, September 1, 2015, http://www
.businessinsider.com/judge-grants-class-action
-status-to-uber-drivers-2015-9, accessed March 25,
2017; Rick McCormick, “Uber Settles Lawsuits to
Keep Drivers as Independent Contractors in California
and Massachusetts,” The Verge Website, April 21,
2016, http://www.theverge.com/2016/4/21/11485424
/uber-suit-california-Massachusetts-drivers-employee
-contractor, accessed March 25, 2017; David
McCabe, “Uber Says More Drivers Holding Other
Jobs,” The Hill, December 7, 2015, http://thehill.
com/policy/technology/262298-uber-says-more
-working-for-company-on-the-side.
2. Craig Downden, “Forget Ethics Training: Focus
on Empathy,” Financial Post, June 21, 2013, http://
business.financialpost.com/2013/06/21/forget-ethics
-training-focus-on-empathy/, accessed January 24,
2014.
3. Josh Levs, “Big Three Auto CEOs Flew Private
Jets to Ask for Taxpayer Money,” CNN, November
19, 2008, http://www.cnn.com/2008/US/11/19/autos
.ceo.jets/, accessed February 2, 2009.
4. Ryan J. Donmoyer, “Lawmakers, Questioning
Fed Bailout, Seek AIG ‘Junket’ Refund,” Bloomberg, October 9, 2008, http://www.bloomberg.com

/apps/news?pid=newsarchive&sid=aPlPYw6JXIBU
&refer=us, accessed February 21, 2011.

May 11, 2004, http://www.marketingsource.com
/newsletter/05-11-2004.html.

5. Barney Gimbel, “Why We’ll Miss the Disney
Trial,” Fortune, December 27, 2004, CNNMoney,
http://money.cnn.com/magazines/fortune/fortune
_archive/2004/12/27/8217949/index.htm; Peter Bart,
“Disney’s Basket Cases,” Variety, March 7, 2004,
http://www.variety.com/article/VR1117901299.html
?categoryid=1&cs=1.

12. Amanda MacMillan, “Is Subway Chicken Really 50% Filler?,” Time Magazine, March 5, 2017,
http://time.com/4686280/subway-chicken-fast-food
-filler/, accessed March 25, 2017.

6. “Pierre Omidyar: Tufts President Lawrence S. Bacow
Awarded Pierre Omidyar an Honorary Degree During
the University’s 155th Commencement Ceremonies
on Sunday, May 22, 2011, TuftsNow, February 24,
2013,” http://now.tufts.edu/commencement-2011
/pierre-omidyar, accessed February 24, 2013; Walter
Hamilton and Kathy M. Kristof, “Merrill CEO
departs with $160 million,” Los Angeles Times,
October 31, 2007, http://articles.latimes.com/2007
/oct/31/business/fi-merrill31, accessed February 24,
2013; Peter Edmonston, “Thain Says He’ll Repay
Remodeling Costs,” The New York Times, January 26,
2009, http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/27/business
/27bank.html?_r=0, accessed February 24, 2013;
David Kesmodel and John Wilke, “Whole Foods Is
Hot, Wild Oats a Dud—So Said “Rahodeb”, The
Wall Street Journal, July 12, 2007, http://online.wsj
.com/article/SB118418782959963745.html, accessed
February 24, 2013.
7. “National Business Ethics Survey: How
Employees View Ethics in Their Organizations,
1994–2005,” Ethics Resource Center, October 12,
2005, http://www.ethics.org/research/2005-press
-release.asp; “National Business Ethics Survey,”
Ethics Resource Center, 2009, http://www.ethics
.org/nbes/files/nbes-final.pdf, accessed May 14,
2010; “2011 NBES Key Findings,” Ethics, http://
www.ethics.org/nbes/findings.html, accessed
February 26, 2012.
8. Bob Lane, “The Role of Tone from the Top,” Ethisphere, December 28, 2009, http://ethisphere.com
/the-role-of-tone-from-the-top/, accessed February 21,
2011.
9. “Supplemental Research Brief, Ethics and Employee Engagement, 2009 National Business Ethics
Survey,” Ethics Resource Center, http://www.ethics
.org/files/u5/NBESResearchBrief2.pdf, accessed
February 6, 2013.
10. Felicity Barringer, “Clorox Courts Sierra Club,
and a Product Is Endorsed,” The New York Times,
March 26, 2008, http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/26
/business/businessspecial2/26cleanser.html, accessed
February 24, 2013; Tyson Foods home page,
http://www.tyson.com/About-Tyson.aspx, accessed
February 24, 2013; Andrea Tse, “Will Supreme
Court Hear Farmer’s Case Against Tyson Foods?,”
The Street, January 24, 2011, http://www.thestreet
.com/story/10982877/1/will-supreme-court-hear-farmers
-case-against-tyson-foods.html, accessed February 24,
2011; Sarah Ellison, “Kraft Limits on Kids’ Ads May
Cheese Off Rivals,” The Wall Street Journal, January 13,
2005, http://www.aef.com/industry/news/data/2005
/3076, accessed February 24, 2013; Megan Chuchmach, “Bailed Out Bank of America Sponsors Super
Bowl Fun Fest,” ABC News, February 2, 2009, http://
abcnews.go.com/Blotter/story?id=6782719&page=1,
accessed February 24, 2013; Jane Akre, “Crash That
Led to Toyota Recall ‘Inconclusive,’” Legal Examiner,
December 8, 2009, http://news.legalexaminer.com
/crash-that-led-to-toyota-recall-inconclusive.aspx
?googleid=275542, accessed February 24, 2013.
11. Bob Leduc, “Complaining Customers Are
Good for Business,” Virtual Marketing Newsletter,

13. Jeannine Stein, “O.B. Ultra Tampons Are
Coming Back, and the Company Apologizes with
a Song,” Los Angeles Times, December 8, 2011,
http://articles.latimes.com/2011/dec/08/news
/la-heb-ob-tampons-return-20111208, accessed
February 29, 2012.
14. Open letter to iPhone customers, Apple, http://
www.apple.com/hotnews/openiphoneletter/, accessed
February 3, 2009; Jeff Smykil, “Apple’s customer satisfaction up despite struggling industry,” Ars Technica,
August 19, 2008, http://arstechnica.com/apple/news
/2008/08/apples-customer-satisfaction-up-despite
-struggling-industry.ars, accessed February 3, 2009;
“The American Customer Satisfaction Index Scores by
Company, Personal Computers Through 2011,” ACSI,
http://www.theacsi.org/index.php?option=com
_content&view=article&id =149&catid=&Itemid
=214&c=Apple+, accessed March 20, 2012.
15. Christina Bonnington, “Tim Cook Apologizes
for Mapocalypse Debacle,” Wired, September 28,
2012, http://www.wired.com/gadgetlab/2012/09/tim
-cook-apologizes-for-maps/, accessed February
4, 2013; Juliette Garside, “Apple Shares Slide as
iPhone Misses Christmas Sales Forecast,” Guardian,
January 23, 2013, http://www.guardian.co.uk
/technology/2013/jan/24/apple-results-iphone-sales,
accessed February 4, 2013.
16. Gill Saporito, “Making Good, Plus a Profit,”
Time Magazine, March 22, 2015, http://time.com
/author/bill-saporito/, accessed March 15, 2015.
17. Tom Raddle, “Giving USA: Americans Donated an Estimated $358.38 Billion to Charity in
2014; Highest Total in Report’s 60-Year History,”
GivingUSA, June 29, 2015, http://givingusa.org
/giving-usa-2015-press-release-giving-usa-americans
-donated-an-estimated-358-38-billion-to-charity
-in-2014-highest-total-in-reports-60-year-history/,
accessed March 13, 2016.
18. Todd Henneman, “Patagonia Fills Payroll
with People Who Are Passionate,” Workforce,
November 5, 2011, http://www.workforce.com
/articles/patagonia-fills-payroll-with-people-who
-are-passionate, accessed January 25, 2013.
19. Starbucks, https://news.starbucks.com/news
/starbucks-hiring-initiatives, accessed March 26,
2017.
20. “Starbucks Focuses Hiring Strategy on Veterans and Military Spouses,” Starbucks, November 6,
2013, http://news.starbucks.com/news/starbucks
-focuses-hiring-strategy-on-veterans-and-military
-spouses, accessed January 25, 2014.
21. “Recycling in the Restaurant,” McDonald’s, http://
www.aboutmcdonalds.com/mcd/sustainability
/library/policies_programs/environmental
_responsibility/recycling_in_the _restaurant.html,
accessed February 5, 2013.
22. “‘Carbon Footprint’ Gaining Business Attention,”
press release, Conference Board, October 18, 2006,
http://www.conference-board.org/UTILITIES
/pressDetail.cfm?press_ID=2985, accessed
February 4, 2009; Jeffery Ball, “Green Goal of
‘carbon neutrality’ hits limit,” The Wall Street Journal, December 30, 2008, http://online.wsj.com/article
/SB123059 880241541259.html, accessed February 4,
2009; Andrew Martin, “How Green Is My Orange?”

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

345

The New York Times, January 22, 2009, http://www
.nytimes.com/2009/01/22/business/22pepsi.html?
_r=1&scp=1&sq=How%20green%20is%20my
%20orange&st=cse, accessed February 4, 2009.
23. Debra Shepard, “The Scoop on Scope 3
Emissions,” SustainServ, June 16, 2011, http://www
.sustainserv.com/de/easyblog/entry/the-scoop-on
-scope-3-emissions.html, accessed February 5,
2012; Rachel King, “U.S. Corporations Size Up
Their Carbon Footprints,” Bloomberg Businessweek, June 1, 2009, http://www.businessweek.com
/technology/content/jun2009/tc2009061_692661
.htm, accessed February 24, 2011.
24. Jena McGregor, “The Oddest, Worst and
Most Memorable CEO Apologies of the Year,” The
Washington Post, December 23, 2014, http:// www
.washingtonpost.com/blogs/on-leadership/wp/2014
/12/23/the-oddest-worst-and-most-memorable
-ceo-apologies-of-the-year/, accessed March 15,
2015; Eun Kyung Kim, “Lululemon Co-founder
Steps Down in Wake of ‘women’s bodies’ Remark,”
Today Money, December 10, 2013, http://www
.today.com/money/lululemon-co-founder-stepsdown-wake-womens-bodies-remark-2D11721314,
accessed March 15, 2015; Mark Thompson and
Chris Liakos, “Volkswagen CEO Quits Over ‘Grave
Crisis,’” CNN, September 23, 2015, http://money
.cnn.com/2015/09/23/news/companies/volkswagen
-emissions-crisis/, accessed March 17, 2016.
25. Jan Hoffman, “Cheating’s Surprising Thrill,”
The New York Times, October 7, 2013, http://well
.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/10/07/in-bad-news-cheating
-feels-good/, accessed January 28, 2014; Romeo
Vitelli, “Is There a ‘Cheater’s High’?,” Psychology
Today, October 14, 2013, http://www.psychologytoday
.com/blog/media-spotlight/201310/is-there-cheaters
-high, accessed January 28, 2014; Nicole E. Reudy,
Celia Moore, Francesca Gino, and Maurice E.
Schweitzer, “The Cheater’s High: The Unexpected
Affective Benefits of Unethical Behavior,” Journal
of Personality and Social Psychology, September
2, 2013, http://www.apa.org/pubs/journals/releases/
psp-a0034231.pdf, accessed March 16, 2015.
26. “Corruption Perceptions Index 2015,” Transparency International, http://www.transparency
.org/cpi2015, accessed March 18, 2016.
27. Marcus Noland and Tyler Moran, “Firms with
More Women in the C-Suite Are More Profitable,”
Harvard Business Review, February 8, 2016, https://
hbr.org/2016/02/study-firms-with-more-women-in
-the-c-suite-are-more-profitable, accessed March 27,
2017.
28. Matthew Boyle, “In Emerging Markets,
Unilever Finds a Passport to Profit,” BusinessWeek,
January 3, 2013, http://www.businessweek.com
/articles/2013-01-03/in-emerging-markets-unilever
-finds-a-passport-to-profit, accessed January 28,
2014; Thomas Donaldson, “Values in Tension: Ethics Away from Home,” Harvard Business Review,
September/October 1996.
29. Nathaniel Parish Flannery, “Has Ralph Lauren
Learned That Bribery Is a Bad Business Strategy in
Latin America?,” Forbes, April 24, 2013, http://www
.forbes.com/sites/nathanielparishflannery/2013/04/24
/bribery-a-bad-business-strategy-in-latin-america/,
accessed January 26, 2014; Juan Gonzalez and Amy
Goodman, “Walmart Is Now Under Investigation
in Mexican ‘Bribery Aisle’ Scandal,” Truthout,
December 21, 2012, http://truth-out.org/news
/item/13469-the-bribery-aisle-how-walmart-used
-payoffs-to-bribe-its-way-through-expansion-in
-mexico, accessed February 6, 2013; Joe Palazzolo,

346

Emily Galzer, and Joann Lublin, “Prosecutors Ask
to Meet Jung in Avon Bribe Probe,” The Wall Street
Journal, July 29 2012, http://online.wsj.com/article
/SB100008723963904448401045775536834065426
66.html, accessed February 6, 2013; “Bribe Payers
Index 2011,” Transparency International, http://bpi
.transparency.org /results/, accessed March 24, 2012;
Stephen Gandel, “Not just Wal-Mart: Dozens of U.S.
companies face bribery suspicions,” Fortune, April 26,
2012, http://fortune.com/2012/04/26/not-just-wal-mart
-dozens-of-u-s-companies-face-bribery-suspicions/,
accessed March 16, 2015.
30. Kay Johnson, “Marketing. Selling to the Poor,”
Time Bonus Section, May 2005; C. K. Prahalad
and Allen Hammond, “Serving the World’s Poor,
Profitably—The Payoff for Investing in Poor
Countries,” Harvard Business School Working
Knowledge, http://hbswk.hbs.edu/item.jhtml?id
=3180&t=nonprofit&noseek=one.
31. Gap, Inc. Social Reporting Award, Business
Ethics, December 20, 2004, http://www.business
-ethics.com/annual.htm#Gap%20Inc.
Pg. 70 Fact: Getting to Grips with China’s Middle
Class by Brendan O’Reilly, July 2, 2014, China Outlook, http://chinaoutlook.com/getting-to-grips-with
-chinas-middle-class/, accessed November 7, 2016.

5
1. Kevin Fallon, “Fooled by ‘The Onion’: 9 Most
Embarrassing Fails,” The Daily Beast, November 27,
2012, http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012
/09/29/fooled-by-the-onion-8-most-embarrassing
-fails.html, accessed February 2, 2014.

7. Number of Employers Passing on Applicants
Due to Social Media Posts Continues to Rise, According to New CareerBuilder Survey, June 26,
2014, CareerBuilder, http://www.careerbuilder
.com/share/aboutus/pressreleasesdetail.aspx?sd
=6%2F26%2F2014&id=pr829&ed=12%2F31
% 2F2014, accessed March 22, 2015; Twitter’s
Growth Will Continue to Slow, Says New Forecast, May 27, 2014, Forbes, http://www.forbes
.com/sites /jeffbercovici/2014/05/27/twitters-growth
-will-continue-to-slow-says-new-forecast/, accessed March 22, 2015; Twitter was the fastest
growing social network in 2012, by Shea Bennet,
MediaBistro, http://www.mediabistro.com
/alltwitter/social-networks-growth-2012_b35076,
accessed February 21, 2013.
8. Forget “Best” or “Sincerely,” This Email Closing Gets the Most Replies by Brendan Greenley,
January 31, 2017, Boomerang Website, http://
blog.boomerangapp.com/2017/01/how-to-end-an
-email-email-sign-offs/#footnotes, accessed
April 6, 2017.
9. Kevin Sintumuang, “Tech Etiquette: 21 Do’s
and Don’ts for 2015,” The Wall Street Journal,
January 2, 2015, http://www.wsj.com/articles
/tech-etiquette-21-dos-and-donts-for-2015
-1420222724, accessed March 22, 2015; Sarah
Griffiths, “Never End a Relationship by Text or
Social Media,” Daily Mail, February 25, 2016,
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article
-3463952/Thou-shalt-not-end-relationship-text
-Psychologist-reveals-17-golden-rules-digital
-etiquette.html, accessed April 7, 2016.
10. Edward P. Bailey, Writing and Speaking at
Work (Prentice Hall, 2005), pages 82–89.

2. Eugene Raudsepp, “Body Language Tactics
That Sway Interviewers,” The Wall Street Journal
Career Journal, December 5, 2002, http://www
.careerjournal.com/jobhunting/interviewing
/20021205-raudsepp.html.

11. “Presenting Effective Presentations with Visual
Aids,” U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational
Safety and Health Administration, http://www.osha
.gov/doc/outreachtraining/htmlfiles /traintec.html,
accessed August 22, 2006.

3. Michael McCarthy, “Lance Armstrong Blew
His Last Chance Experts Say,” Advertising Age,
January 19, 2013, http://adage.com/article/media
/lance-armstrong-blew-chance-experts/239295/,
accessed February 20, 2013; Brigid Schulte,
“Dominance and Empathy,” The Washington Post,
February 13, 2013, http://www.washingtonpost.com
/local/body-language-experts-say-obama-exuded
-dominance-and-empathy/2013/02/13/7755207e
-7590-11e2-95e4-6148e45d7adb_story.html,
accessed March 21, 2015.

12. Philip Tucker, “Bringing the Cloud with
You,” Google Docs Blog, March 31, 2008, http://
googledocs.blogspot.com/2008/03/bringing-cloud
-with-you.html, accessed February 13, 2009; Brian
Braiker, “Living in the Clouds,” Newsweek, June 10,
2008, http://www.newsweek.com/id/140864, accessed
February 13, 2009; Michael Miller, “Comparing
Google Docs with Competing Cloud Computing
Applications,” InformIT, February 9, 2009, http://
www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=13232
44&seqNum=3, accessed February 13, 2009.

4. Michael Purdy, “The Listener Wins,” Monster,
http://featuredreports.monster.com/career-advice
/article/the-listener-wins, accessed August 22, 2006;
The Human Side of Business, by Stephen D. Boyd,
Agency Sales magazine, February 2004, page 35,
accessed via Infotrac College Edition.

6

5. We Learn More by Listening Than Talking, by
Harvey Mackay, The Daily Herald, January 16,
2005, page E6[SB14], http://old.heraldextra.com
/modules.php?op=modload&name=News&file
=article&sid=45313; Listening Factoids,
International Listening Association, http://www
.listen.org/pages/factoids.html, accessed August 22,
2006.
6. The Human Side of Business, by Stephen
D. Boyd, Agency Sales magazine, February 2004,
page 35, accessed via Infotrac College Edition;
Learn to Listen: Closing the Mouth and Opening
the Ears Facilitates Effective Communication, by
Marjorie Brody, Incentive, May 2004, page 57, accessed via Business and Company Resource Center.

1. P. George, “The Scary Truth about Corporate
Survival,” Harvard Business Review, 94 (December
2016): 24–25.
2. “Why States Should Adopt RULLCA,” Uniform
Law Commission: The National Conference of
Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, http://www
.uniformlaws.org/Narrative.aspx?title=Why%20States
%20Should%20Adopt%20RULLCA, accessed
January 16, 2017.
3. “Table 12: Number of Business Tax Returns, by
Size of Business for Income Years, 1990–2014 [1]
Expanded,” Internal Revenue Service, https://www
.irs.gov/uac/soi-tax-stats-historical-table-12,
accessed January 16, 2017.
4. J. Sparshott, “Big Growth in Tiny Businesses,”
The Wall Street Journal, December 28, 2016, http://

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

www.wsj.com/articles/big-growth-in-tiny-businesses
-1482953786, accessed January 16, 2017.
5. A. Shi, “The 10 Most Profitable Companies in
the Fortune 500,” Fortune, June 8, 2016, http://
fortune.com/2016/06/08/fortune-500-most-profitable
-companies-2016/, accessed January 16, 2017.
6. “Table 12: Number of Business Tax Returns, by
Size of Business for Income Years, 1990–2014 [1]
Expanded,” Internal Revenue Service, https://www
.irs.gov/uac/soi-tax-stats-historical-table-12,
accessed January 16, 2017.
7. Ibid.
8. J. Sparshott, “Big Growth in Tiny Businesses,”
The Wall Street Journal, December 28, 2016, http://
www.wsj.com/articles/big-growth-in-tiny-businesses
-1482953786, accessed January 16, 2017.
9. E. Palattella, “Unpaid Wages Pile Up at Erie
County Farms,” GoErie, December 4, 2016, http://
www.goerie.com/news/20161204/unpaid-wages-pile
-up-at-erie-county-farms, accessed January 16,
2017.
10. “BrightStar Care Franchise is the Leader in
the Fast-Growing Home Care Industry,” BrightStar
Care, http://franchise.brightstarcare.com/, accessed
January 21, 2017; “How To Start Senior Home Care
Business | Home Instead Franchises—Franchise
FAQ”, Home Instead Senior Care, http://franchises
.homeinstead.com/franchising-faq/Pages/default
.aspx, accessed January 21, 2017; E. Garone, “Iconic Franchises—Then and Now,” The Wall Street
Journal, November 29, 2016, http://www.wsj.com
/articles/iconic-franchisesthen-and-now-1479697681,
accessed January 21, 2017; T. Mullaney, “BrightStar
CEO: Major Tech, Workforce Investments Sharpen
Competitive Edge,” Home Health Care News,
January 3, 2017, http://homehealthcarenews
.com/2017/01/brightstar-ceo-major-tech-workforce
-investments-sharpen-competitive-edge/, accessed
January 21, 2017; R. Simon, “Senior-Care Business
Booms for Franchisers,” The Wall Street Journal,
August 10, 2016, http://www.wsj.com/articles/hot
-franchising-trend-services-for-seniors-1470821404,
accessed January 21, 2017.
11. “About Us,” Delaware Division of Corporations, http://www.corp.delaware.gov/aboutagency
.shtml, accessed March 19, 2016.
12. K. Klein, “Setting Up a One Person Corporation,” BusinessWeek, November 7, 2007, BusinessWeek, http://www.businessweek.com/smallbiz
/content/nov2007/sb2007117_803605.htm, accessed
January 19, 2017.
13. A. Hufford, “Apple CEO Cook’s 2016 Pay
Lower as Tech Giant Misses Targets,” The Wall
Street Journal, January 6, 2017, http://www.wsj
.com/articles/apple-cuts-ceo-tim-cooks-pay-after
-missing-2016-targets-1483710023, accessed
January 19, 2017.
14. J. Drucker and S. Frier, “For Facebook’s Zuckerberg, Charity Is in Eye of Beholder,” Bloomberg,
December 2, 2015, http://www.bloomberg.com
/news/articles/2015-12-02/for-facebook-s-zuckerberg
-charitable-is-in-eye-of-beholder, accessed
March 21, 2016; R. Rubin, L. Saunders, and
D. Seetharaman, “Mark Zuckerberg Tests New
Philanthropic Model,” The Wall Street Journal,
3 December, 2015, B10; N. Singer and M. Isaac,
“Mark Zuckerberg’s Philanthropy Uses L.L.C. for
More Control,” The New York Times, December 2,
2015, http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/03
/technology/zuckerbergs-philanthropy-uses-llc-for
-more-control.html, accessed March 21, 2016.

15. “A Home for Innovation: The HP Garage—the
Birthplace of Silicon Valley,” HP, December 2012,
http://www.hp.com/hpinfo/abouthp/histnfacts
/publications/garage/innovation.pdf, accessed
January 21, 2017; Q. Hardy, “Meg Whitman Seeks
Reinvention for HP as It Prepares for Split,” The
New York Times, October 30, 2015, https://www
.nytimes.com/2015/10/31/technology/meg-whitman
-seeks-reinvention-for-hp-as-it-prepares-for-split
.html?_r=0, accessed January 21, 2017; R. McMillan,
“H-P Is Back in Buying Mode as It Readies to Split
in Two,” The Wall Street Journal, June 4, 2015,
http://www.wsj.com/articles/h-p-is-back-in-buying
-mode-as-it-readies-to-split-in-two-1433459156,
accessed January 21, 2017.
16. “Why States Should Adopt RULLCA,” Uniform
Law Commission: The National Conference of
Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, http://www
.uniformlaws.org/Narrative.aspx?title=Why
%20States%20Should%20Adopt%20RULLCA,
accessed January 16, 2017.
17. Kelly Phillips Erb, “Small Business Startup and
Survival Guide,” Forbes, August 19, 2015, http://
www.forbes.com/sites/kellyphillipserb/2015 /08/19
/small-biz-startup-and-survival-guide, accessed May
10, 2016; Elizabeth Garone, “As Competition for
Franchisees Heats Up, so Do Incentives,” The Wall
Street Journal, January 25, 2016, http://www.wsj
.com/articles/as-competition-for-franchisees-heats
-up-so-do-incentives-1453690992, accessed May
10, 2016.
18. “Why States Should Adopt RULLCA,” Uniform
Law Commission: The National Conference of
Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, http://www
.uniformlaws.org/Narrative.aspx?title=Why%20States
%20Should%20Adopt%20RULLCA, accessed
January 16, 2017.
19. Franchise Business Economic Outlook for
2016, January 2016, prepared by IHS Economics
for the International Franchise Association Educational Foundation, IFA, http://emarket.franchise.
org/FranchiseOutlookJan2016.pdf, accessed
March 20, 2016; “Census Bureau’s First Release of
Comprehensive Franchise Data Shows Franchises
Make Up More Than 10% of Employer Businesses,” U.S. Census Bureau, http://www.census
.gov/newsroom/releases/archives/economic_census
/cb10-141.html, accessed March 20, 2016.
20. “McDonald’s: Units (Locations),”
Entrepreneur, http://www.entrepreneur.com
/franchises/mcdonalds/282570, accessed January 19,
2017; “Subway: Units (Locations),” Entrepreneur,
http://www.entrepreneur.com/franchises/subway
/282839, accessed January 19, 2017; “7–11: Units
(Locations),” Entrepreneur, http://www.entrepreneur
.com/franchises/7eleveninc/282052, accessed
January 19, 2017.
21. K. Taylor, “Women in Franchising: An
Enthusiastic Minority,” Entrepreneur, http://
www.entrepreneur.com/article/229675, accessed
April 7, 2015.
22. G. Moran, “3 Women to Watch in the Franchising Sector,” Entrepreneur, http://www.entrepreneur
.com/slideshow/240847, accessed April 7, 2015;
Julie Bennett, “Franchising Attracts More Women,
Minorities,” Startup Journal, accessed through
Entrepreneur.com, http://www.entrepreneur.com
/franchises/franchisezone/startupjournal/article61324
.html; Julie M. Young, “Female Franchisors Few
and Far Between,” e-magnify.com, https://www.e
-magnify.com/resources_articlearchiveresults.asp
?categoryID=18.

23. “Franchised Business Ownership: By Minority and Gender Groups,” International Franchising
Association, http://www.franchise.org/sites/default
/files/ek-pdfs/html_page/MinorityReport2011_0
.pdf, accessed March 20, 2016.
24. J. Bourdow and M. Brewer, “Inclusion Is a
Growth Strategy,” Franchising World, (June 2013):
15–17.
25. “DIVERSITYFRAN: Diversity in Franchising,”
International Franchise Association, http://www
.franchise.org/diversityfran, accessed March 20,
2016; “DiversityFran Participating Companies,”
International Franchise Organization, http://www
.franchise.org/sites/default/files/uploaded_documents
/Educational_Foundation/April_%202015_Diversity
Fran%20Participating%20Companies.pdf, accessed
January 19, 2017.
26. “Subway,” Entrepreneur, http://www.entrepreneur
.com/franchises/subway/282839-2.html, accessed
March 20, 2016.
27. E. Anderson, “Who Wants to be a McMillionaire?
Meet Britain’s Hidden Army of Successful Fast
Food Owners,” Telegraph, November 14, 2015,
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/newsbysector
/retailandconsumer/11993677/Who-wants-to-be
-a-McMillionaire-Meet-Britains-hidden-army-of
-successful-fast-food-owners.html, accessed
January 22, 2017; L. Patton, “McDonald’s Is Pushing Out the Small Fries,” Bloomberg Businessweek,
September 1, 2015, https://www.bloomberg.com
/news/articles/2016-09-01/mcdonald-s-is-pushing
-out-the-small-fries, accessed January 22, 2017.
28. Franchise Rule Compliance Guide, Federal
Trade Commission, http://www.ftc.gov/bcp/edu
/pubs/business/franchise/bus70.pdf, pages 20,
102–103, and 121.
Pg. 99 Fact: John McCormack, “GE Filed 57,000Page Tax Return, Paid No Taxes on $14 Billion in
Profits,” The Weekly Standard, November 17, 2011,
http://www.weeklystandard.com/blogs/ge-filed
-57000-page-tax-return-paid-no-taxes-14
-billionprofits_609137.html.

7
1. Dane Stangler, “Entrepreneurial Activity Declines
Again in 2013 as Labor Market Strengthens, according
to Kauffman Report,” Kauffman Foundation, April 9,
2014, http://www.kauffman.org/newsroom/2014/04
/entrepreneurial-activity-declines-again-in-2013-as
-labor-market-strengthens, accessed July 3, 2014;
J. D. Harrison, “New Business Formation Bounces
Back; Posts First Increase Since the Recession,” The
Washington Post, July 31, 2013, http://articles
.washingtonpost.com/2013-07-31/business /40931691
_1_job-growth-new-firms-small-business, accessed
February 5, 2014; “New Business Startups Declined
in 2011, Annual Kauffman Study Shows,” March 19,
2012, Kauffman Foundation, http://www.kauffman
.org/research-and-policy/kiea-2012-infographic.aspx,
accessed June 12, 2012.
2. Walter Hamilton, “A Drop-Off in Start-ups:
Where Are All the Entrepreneurs?,” September 7,
2014, The Los Angeles Times, http://www.latimes.
com/business/la-fi-entrepreneurs-20140907-story
.html#page=1, accessed April 5, 2015.
3. Matthew Miller and Duncan Greenberg (eds.),
“The Forbes 400,” Forbes, September 17, 2008, http://
www.forbes.com/2008/09/16/forbes-400-billionaires

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

347

-lists-400list08_cx_mn _0917richamericans_land.html,
accessed February 15, 2009.

-business/overview/how-to-finance-a-new-business
-ov.htm, accessed March 18, 2011.

4. Newsweek staff, “The Big Fat Story, The Geek
Kings,” Newsweek, June 5, 2011, http://www.newsweek
.com/big-fat-story-geek-kings-67969, accessed
February 5, 2013; “Forbes 400 Richest Americans,”
Forbes, September 2013, http://www.forbes.com
/profile/dustin-moskovitz/, accessed February 19,
2014; Jason Nazar, “Surprising Past Jobs of Successful Entrepreneurs,” Business Insider, October 31,
2013, http://www.businessinsider.com/surprising
-past-jobs-of-successful-entrepreneurs-2013-10,
accessed April 5, 2015.

14. Adam Lashinsky, “How Alibaba’s Jack Ma Is
Building a Truly Global Retail Empire,” Fortune,
March 23, 2017, http://fortune.com/2017/03/24
/jack-ma-alibaba-china-ecommerce-world-greatest
-leaders/, accessed April 12, 2017.

5. “Discover Polls Reveal True Character of the
American Entrepreneur,” press release, Discover
Financial Services, October 22, 2007, http://
investorrelations.discoverfinancial.com/phoenix
.zhtml?c=204177&p=irol-newsArticle&ID
=1065373&highlight=, accessed February 15,
2009.

16. Patrick Clark, “What Do Small Businesses Need
Banks for, Anyway?,” BusinessWeek, September 10,
2013, http://www.businessweek.com/articles/2013
-09-10/what-do-small-businesses-need-banks-for
-anyway, accessed February 6, 2014.

6. “More than Half of Small Business Owners
Work at Least Six-Day Weeks, Still Find Time for
Personal Life,” Wells Fargo News Release, August
9, 2005, https://www.wellsfargo.com/press/20050809
_GallupPersonalLife; “Discover Polls Reveal True
Character of the American Entrepreneur,” press
release, Discover Financial Services, October 22,
2007, http://investorrelations.discoverfinancial.com
/phoenix.zhtml?c=204177&p=irol-newsArticle&ID
=1065373&highlight=, accessed February 15, 2009;
“Small Business Owners Working Longer Hours,”
May 26, 2009, Rent to Own, http://rtoonline.com
/Content/Article/may09/smal-business-owners-work
-hours-survey-052609.asp, accessed June 12, 2012.
7. Brian Wu and Anne Marie Knott, “Entrepreneurial Risk and Market Entry,” SBA Office of
Advocacy, January 2005, http://www.sba.gov/advo
/research/wkpbw249.pdf.
8. “Failure: Use It as a Springboard to Success,”
U.S. SBA Online Library, http://www.sba.gov
/library/successXIII/19-Failure-Use-it.doc, accessed
December 28, 2005.
9. Alice E. Vincent, “Rejection Letters: The Publishers Who Got It Embarrassingly Wrong . . . ,” The
Huffington Post, November 7, 2012, http://www
.huffingtonpost.co.uk/2012/05/16 /publishers-who
-got-it-wrong_n_1520190. html#slide=more226527,
accessed March 15, 2013; “Failure: Use It as a
Springboard to Success,” U.S. SBA Online Library,
http://www.sba.gov/library/successXIII/19-Failure
-Use-it.doc, accessed December 28, 2005.
10. “The Biggest Lies People Told Me About Entrepreneurship,” Inc., April 4, 2017, https://www
.inc.com/cox-business/the-biggest-lie-people-told-me
-about-entrepreneurship.html, accessed April 13, 2017.
11. Keith McFarland, “What Makes Them Tick,”
Inc 500, 2005, Inc, http://www.inc.com/resources
/inc500/2005/articles/20051001/tick.html; Kwame
Kuadey, “Bootstrapping Your Startup? Make Money
Before You Spend It,” Young Entrepreneurs Council, June 12, 2012, http://theyec.org /bootstrappingyour-startup-make-money-before-you-spend-it/,
accessed June 12, 2012.
12. Benjamin Ryan, “Starved of Financing, New
Businesses Are in Decline,” Gallup Business Journal, September 4, 2014, http://www.gallup.com
/businessjournal/175499/starved-financing-new
-businesses-decline.aspx, accessed April 5, 2015.
13. “How to Finance a New Business,” Consumer
Reports, April 2008, http://www.consumerreports.
org/cro/money/credit-loan/how-to-finance-a-new

348

15. John Tozzi, “Credit Cards Replace Small Business Loans,” BusinessWeek, August 20, 2008, http://
www.businessweek.com/smallbiz/content/aug2008
/sb20080820_288348.htm?chan=smallbiz_smallbiz
+index+page_top+small+business+stories, accessed
February 15, 2009.

17. “Start-up Information,” Delaware Small Business Development Center, updated April 28, 2008,
http://www.delawaresbdc.org/DocumentMaster.
aspx?doc=1003#6, accessed February 15, 2009.
18. Mike Freeman, “San Diego’s Investing Angels,”
San Diego Union Tribune, January 32, 2013, http://
www.utsandiego.com/news/2013/jan/31/Tech-Coast
-Angels-fund-local-start-ups/?page=1#article-copy,
accessed March 24, 2013; “Financial Assistance,”
Small Business Administration, http://www.sba.gov
/services/financialassistance/index.html, accessed
February 15, 2009.
19. Darrah Brustein, “Growth-Hacking 101,” Entrepreneur, August 5, 2016, https://www.entrepreneur.com
/article/280130, accessed April 13, 2017.
20. “Crowdfunding Industry Statistics 2015 2016,”
CrowdExpert.com, February 29, 2016, http://
crowdexpert.com/crowdfunding-industry-statistics/,
accessed April 13, 2017.
21. Jeffrey Sohl, “Angel Investor Market in Q1Q2
2011: A Return to the Seed Stage,” Center for
Venture Research, University of New Hampshire,
October 11, 2011, https://paulcollege.unh.edu/sites
/paulcollege.unh.edu/files/q1q2_2011_analysis
_report_0.pdf, accessed June 12, 2012; Abby Tracy,
“Angel Investments Up 40%,” Inc., March 13, 2012,
http://wire.inc.com/2012/03/13/angel-investments
-up-40/, accessed June 12, 2012.
22. “The Steady, Strategic Assent of JetBlue
Airways,” Strategic Management Knowledge at
Wharton, December 14, 2005–January 10, 2006,
http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article/1342
.cfm; Bobbie Gossage, “Charging Ahead,” Inc.
Magazine, January 2004, http://www.inc.com
/magazine/20040101/gettingstarted.html.
23. Amplestuff, http://www.amplestuff.com/; “Kazoo
v. Walmart,” Reveries magazine, November 29,
2005, http://www.reveries.com/?p=232.
24. “E-Commerce Award—June 2002,” Anything
Left-Handed, http://www.anythingleft-handed.
co.uk/pressreleases.html, accessed May 24, 2017.
25. Rhonda Abrams, “Focus on Success, Not
Failure,” USA Today, May 7, 2004, http://www
.usatoday.com/money/smallbusiness/columnist
/abrams/2004-05-06-success_x.htm.
26. “Is Entrepreneurship for You?,” U.S. Small
Business Administration, http://www.sba.gov
/starting_business/startup/areyouready.html,
accessed December 15, 2005.
27. “Committee Examines Ways to Ease Growing
Regulatory Burden on Small Businesses,” U.S.
House of Representatives Press Release, House of

Representatives, July 30, 2008, http://www.house
.gov/smbiz/PressReleases/2008/pr-7-30-08-regulatory
.html, accessed February 15, 2009.
28. David Nather, “How Obamacare Affects Businesses—Large and Small,” Politico, September 30,
2013, http://www.politico.com/story/2013/09/how
-obamacare-affects-businesses-large-and-small
-97460.html, accessed February 6, 2014; “Entrepreneurship in the 21st Century,” Conference Proceedings, March 26, 2004, SBA Office of Advocacy and
the Kauffman Foundation, http://www.sba.gov
/advo/stats/proceedings_a.pdf; Sharon McLoone,
“Health Care Costs Surface in Economic Stimulus
Debate,” Washington Post, February 10, 2009,
http://voices.washingtonpost.com/small-business
/2009/02/health_care_costs_surface_in_e.html,
accessed February 15, 2009.
29. “Business Plan Basics,” U.S. SBA, http://www
.sba.gov/starting_business/planning/basic.html,
accessed February 15, 2009.
30. “Inventor of the Week, Lemulson-MIT,” http://
web.mit.edu/invent/iow/epperson.html, accessed
March 15, 2013; “10 Accidental Inventions You
Won’t Believe,” Science Channel, http://science
.discovery.com/brink/top-ten/accidental-inventions
/inventions-01.html, accessed March 22, 2011.
31. “2016 Frequently Asked Questions,” Small
Business Administration Office of Advocacy, July 20,
2016, https://www.sba.gov/advocacy/frequently
-asked-questions-about-small-business, accessed
April 13, 2017.
32. “Frequently Asked Questions,” SBA Office
of Advocacy, updated September 2008, SBA,
http://www.sba.gov/advo/stats/sbfaq.pdf, accessed
February 17, 2009.
33. Ibid.
34. “Small Business Drives Inner City Growth and
Jobs,” news release, U.S. SBA Office of Advocacy,
October 11, 2005, http://www.sba.gov/advo /press
/05-32.html.
35. Niels Bosma, Zoltan J. Acs, Erkko Autio, Alicia
Coduras, and Jonathan Levie, “Global Entrepreneurship Monitor, 2008 Executive Report,” Global
Entreprenurship Research Association, London
School of Economics, January 15, 2009, http://www
.gemconsortium.org/article.aspx?id=76, accessed
February 17, 2009.
Pg. 121 Fact: John Greathouse, “Business Tips
from College Dropouts: Zuckerberg, Jobs, Gates,
Dell, Ellison, Branson and Disney,” Forbes,
June 5, 2012, http://www.forbes.com/sites
/johngreathouse/2012/06/05/business-tips-from
-college-dropouts-zuckerberg-jobs-gates-dell
-ellison-branson-and-disney/, accessed November
2012; and http://www.gemconsortium.org/docs
/download/260, accessed November 2012.

8
1. N. Weinberg, “Making a Loss Look Like a Profit:
Where Perrigo Led the S&P 500,” Bloomberg Businessweek, September 13, 2016, https://www
.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-09-13/making
-a-loss-look-like-a-profit-where-perrigo-led-the-s
-p-500, accessed January 24, 2017.
2. J. Rockoff, D. Mattioli, and L. Beilfuss, “Pfizer and
Allergan to Merge in $155 Billion Inversion Deal,”
The Wall Street Journal, November 23, 2015, http://
www.wsj.com/articles/pfizer-and-allergan-to-merge

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-in-huge-inversion-deal-1448280652, accessed March
22, 2016; R. Rubin, “Pfizer Piles Profits Abroad,” The
Wall Street Journal, November 8, 2015, http://www
.wsj.com/articles /pfizer-piles-profits-abroad1447031546, accessed March 22, 2016; J. Sommer,
“A Tax-Cutting Move That Pfizer Can Hardly Resist,”
The New York Times, November 15, 2015, BU6;
V. Luckerson, “Here’s How Much Pfizer Could
Save in Taxes After Allergan Merger,” Time Magazine, November 23, 2015, http://time.com/4124633
/pfizer-allergan-merger-taxes-inversion/, accessed
March 23, 2016.
3. T. Shumsky and D. Francis, “Accounting Choices
Blur Profit Picture,” The Wall Street Journal, June 28,
2016, http://www.wsj.com/articles/accounting-choices
-blur-profit-picture-1467086625, accessed January
24, 2017.
4. Ibid.
5. A. Ross Sorkin, “Graphic: A Long Line of
Accounting Scandals,” Dealbook, The New York
Times, November 20, 2012, http://dealbook
.nytimes.com/2012/11/20/graphic-a-long-line-of
-accounting-scandals/, accessed March 5, 2013.
6. D. Michales, “Fuzzy-Math Accounting Chided
by Buffett Gets Fresh SEC Scrutiny,” Bloomberg,
March 1, 2016, http://www.bloomberg.com/news
/articles/2016-03-01/fuzzy-math-accounting-chided
-by-buffett-gets-fresh-sec-scrutiny, accessed March
23, 2016; G. Morgenson, “Tech Companies Fly
High on Fantasy Accounting,” The New York Times,
June 18, 2015, http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/21
/business/high-tech-fantasy-accounting.html?ref
=todayspaper, accessed March 22, 2016; T. Shumsky
and D. Francis, “Accounting Choices Blur Profit
Picture,” The Wall Street Journal , June 28, 2016,
http://www.wsj.com/articles/accounting-choices-blur
-profit-picture-1467086625, accessed January 24,
2017.
7. J. Jargon, “McDonald’s Won’t Spin Off Real Estate Holdings,” The Wall Street Journal, November 10,
2015, http://www.wsj.com/articles/mcdonalds-wont
-spin-off-real-estate-holdings-1447180384, accessed
January 24, 2017; W. Ma, R. Carew, and K. Wu,
“McDonald’s China Franchise Deal Could Fetch
Up to $2 Billion Up Front,” The Wall Street Journal,
October 4, 2016, http://www.wsj.com/articles
/mcdonalds-china-franchise-deal-could-fetch-up-to-2
-billion-up-front-1475487030, accessed January 24,
2017; K. Wu and J. Jargon, “McDonald’s Looks
to Sell Part of Stake in Japan Business,” The Wall
Street Journal, January 12, 2017, http://www.wsj
.com/articles/mcdonalds-looks-to-sell-part-of-stake
-in-japan-business-1484219630, accessed January 24,
2017.
8. “Effective Rates of Corporation Tax in Ireland:
Technical Paper,” Irish Department of Finance,
April 2014, www.budget.gov.ie/Budgets/2015
/Documents/Technical_Paper_Effective_Rates
_Corporation_Tax_Ireland.pdf, accessed January 25,
2017; N. Drozdiak and S. Schechner, “Apple Ordered by EU to Repay $14.5 Billion in Irish
Tax Breaks, The Wall Street Journal, August 30,
2016, http://www.wsj.com/articles/apple-received
-14-5-billion-in-illegal-tax-benefits-from-ireland
-1472551598, accessed January 25, 2017; H. McGee,
“Apple Tax Appeal: The Three Arguments Government to Use, Irish Times, September 3, 2016,
http://www.irishtimes.com/business/economy/apple
-tax-appeal-the-three-arguments-government-to
-use-1.2777679, accessed January 25, 2017;
M. Scott, “Tim Cook, Apple Chief, Defends Tax
Practices and Says Cash Will Return to U.S,” The

New York Times, September 1, 2016, https://www
.nytimes.com/2016/09/02/technology/apple-tax
-ireland-tim-cook.html?_r=0, accessed January 25,
2017; WSJ Staff, “Tim Cook’s Letter to Apple Customers After EU Tax Ruling—In Full, The Wall
Street Journal, August 30, 2016, http://blogs.wsj
.com/dispatch/2016/08/30/tim-cooks-letter-to-apple
-customers-after-eu-tax-ruling-in-full/, accessed
January 25, 2017; WSJ Staff, “Apple’s Tax in
Ireland – At A Glance, The Wall Street Journal,
August 30, 2016, http://blogs.wsj.com/briefly/2016
/08/30/apples-irish-tax-bill-at-a-glance/, accessed
January 25, 2017.

-workers-shuffle-jobs-1484256389, accessed
January 25, 2017.

9. J. Henley, “Sweden Leads the Race to Become
Cashless Society,” The Guardian, June 4, 2016,
https://www.theguardian.com/business/2016/jun/04
/sweden-cashless-society-cards-phone-apps-leading
-europe, accessed January 31, 2017; J. Letzing,
“Swiss Are Frank About Their Love of Cash,” The
Wall Street Journal, January 2, 2017, https://www
.wsj.com/articles/swiss-are-frank-about-their-love
-of-cash-1483378809, accessed January 31, 2017;
C. Mims, “Why Your Business Should Ditch Cash,”
The Wall Street Journal, January 30, 2017, https://
www.wsj.com/articles/why-your-business-should
-ditch-cash-1485698400, accessed January 31, 2017;
E. Palma, “What Happens When We Become A
Cashless Society?” Fast Company, May 15, 2016,
https://www.fastcoexist.com/3056736/what
-happens-when-we-become-a-cashless-society,
accessed January 31, 2017; A. Picchi, “Stores to
Customers: “Cash Not Welcome Here,” CBS News,
August 12, 2016, http://www.cbsnews.com/news
/stores-to-customers-cash-not-welcome-here/,
accessed January 31, 2017.

9

10. A. Hair and R. Winkler, “Google Creates Parent Company Called Alphabet in Restructuring,”
The Wall Street Journal, August 20, 2015, https://
www.wsj.com/articles/google-creates-new-company
-alphabet-1439240645, accessed January 31, 2017;
M. Chafkin and M. Bergen, “Google Makes so
Much Money, It Never Had to Worry About Financial Discipline—Until Now,” Bloomberg Businessweek, December 8, 2016, https://www.bloomberg
.com/news/features/2016-12-08/google-makes-so
-much-money-it-never-had-to-worry-about-financial
-discipline, accessed January 31, 2017; J. Nicas,
“Google Parent Alphabet Finds New Growth beyond Search,” The Wall Street Journal, January 26,
2017, https://www.wsj.com/articles/BT-CO-20170126
-717052, accessed January 31, 2017; L. Rao, “The
Wall Street Veteran Who’s Helping Google Get
Disciplined,” Fortune, September 12, 2016, http://
fortune.com/google-cfo-ruth-porat-most-powerful
-women/, accessed January 31, 2017.
11. “Mission and Vision,” Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board, https://pcaobus.org
/About/History/Pages/default.aspx, accessed
January 24, 2017.
12. R. Teitelbaum, “Accountants, Auditors to Get
a New Ethics Rule Book,” The Wall Street Journal,
July 11, 2016, http://www.wsj.com/articles
/accountants-auditors-to-get-a-new-ethics-rule
-book-1468283179, accessed January 24, 2017.
13. Ibid.
14. The Essentials of Finance and Budgeting
(Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press,
2005), pp. 177–181.
15. S. Nassauer and P. Ziobro, “Lowe’s to Cut
Thousands of Store Workers, Shuffle Jobs,” The
Wall Street Journal, January 12, 2017, http://www
.wsj.com/articles/lowes-to-cut-thousands-of-store

16. W. Steve Albrecht, James D. Stice, Earl K.
Stice, and Monte R. Swain, Accounting Concepts
and Applications, 9th ed. (Boston, MA: Cengage
Learning), p. 758.
Pg. 138 Fact: “Securities and Exchange Commission:
A Beginner’s Guide to Financial Statements,” SEC,
http://www.sec.gov/investor/pubs/begfinstmtguide
.htm, accessed March 29, 2009. (“Read The Footnotes” finished seventh in the 2004 Kentucky Derby.)

1. S. Pulliam, M. Ramsey, and B. Mullins, “Elon Musk
Supports His Business Empire with Unusual Financial Moves,” The Wall Street Journal, April 27,
2016, https://www.wsj.com/articles/elon-musksupports-his-business-empire-with-unusual-financial
-moves-1461781962?mod=djem10point, accessed
February 1, 2017.
2. S. Bainbridge, “A Duty to Shareholder Value,”
The New York Times, April 16, 2015, http://www
.nytimes.com/roomfordebate/2015/04/16/what-are
-corporations-obligations-to-shareholders/a-duty-to
-shareholder-value, accessed February 1, 2017.
3. L. Strine, “The Dangers of Denial: The Need
for a Clear-Eyed Understanding of the Power and
Accountability Structure Established by the Delaware General Corporation Law,” Wake Forest Law
Review 50 (2015): 761.
4. See, for example, J. R. McGuigan, R. P. Rao,
and C. Moyer, Fundamentals of Contemporary
Financial Management, 2nd ed. (Stamford, CT:
South-Western, Cengage Learning), p. 3; Eugene
F. Brigham, Fundamentals of Financial Management, 11th ed. (Stamford, CT: Cengage Learning,
2005), p. 2.
5. A. Damodaran, “Annual Returns on Stock,
T. Bonds and T. Bills: 1928—Current,” Stern
School of Business, New York University, January 5,
2017, http://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/New
_Home_Page/datafile/histretSP.html, accessed February 2, 2017; “Risk and Return: An Introduction,”
Bogleheads, August 1, 2016, https://www.bogleheads
.org/wiki/Risk_and_return:_an_introduction#cite
_note-7, accessed February 2, 2017.
6. “Industry Browser—Services—Restaurants
Industry—Company List,” Yahoo! Finance, http://
finance.yahoo.com/q/ks?s=MCD+Key +Statistics,
accessed April 9, 2015; “McDonald’s Corporation
Financials,” The Wall Street Journal, http://quotes
.wsj.com/MCD/financials/Ratios, accessed April 9,
2015; “McDonald’s Financial Ratios MCD,” The
Motley Fool, http://www.fool.com/quote/nyse
/mcdonalds/mcd/financial-ratios, accessed April 9,
2015; “McDonald’s Visual Financials,” ADVFN,
http://www.advfn.com/stock-market/NYSE/MCD
/financials, accessed April 9, 2015; “Overview Industry Profile: Fast-Food & Quick-Service Restaurants,”
First Research, http://mergent.firstresearch-learn
.com/industry _detail.aspx?pid=433&chapter=7,
accessed April 9, 2015.
7. J. Ballard, “Activision Blizzard Is Set for
Outperformance,” The Motley Fool, December 28,
2016, https://www.fool.com/investing/2016/12/28
/activision-blizzard-is-set-for-outperformance.aspx,
accessed February 2, 2017; D. Gallagher, “Tracking
Videogame Sales Is Tougher Than You Think,” The
Wall Street Journal, July 26, 2016, C8.

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

349

8. A. Davidson, “Sustainable Investing Goes Mainstream,” The Wall Street Journal, January 13, 2015;
A. Edmans and D. Vogel, “Does Socially Responsible Investing Make Financial Sense?,” The Wall
Street Journal, February 28, 2016, http://www.wsj
.com/articles/does-socially-responsible-investing
-make-financial-sense-1456715888, accessed March 27,
2016; E. McCarthy, “Investor IQ: Test Your Smarts . . .
on Ethical Investing, The Wall Street Journal, June 3,
2014, p. R8; A. Pryor, “Weekend Investor—Investing
with a Mission,” The Wall Street Journal, July 18,
2015, p. B7.
9. The approximate “finance charge” of not taking
the discount on credit can be computed using the
following formula:
    5
    3

% discount
(100-% discount)
365
(Credit_Period-Discount_Period)

where % discount is the discount the buyer receives
for paying on or before the last day the discount
is available, and the Credit Discount Period is the
number of days before payment of full invoice
amount is due.
10. R. Cole, “Bank Credit, Trade Credit or No Credit:
Evidence from the Surveys of Small Business Finances,” Office of Advocacy, Small Business Administration, June 2010, https://www.sba.gov/sites/default
/files/rs365tot.pdf, accessed February 2, 2017.
11. E. Dou and G. Wong, “Hon Hai Banks on
Finance—The iPhone Assembler Now Provides
Loans to Electronics Industry,” The Wall Street
Journal, November 18, 2015, p. B6.
12. “Annual Asset-Based Lending and Factoring
Survey Highlights, 2014,” Commercial Finance Association, March 31, 2015, https://www.cfa.com/eweb
/DynamicPage.aspx?Site=cfa&WebKey=2f388eee-12cc
-441b-9584-986d6261fc51, accessed February 2,
2017.
13. B. Olson, E. Glazer, and M. Jarzemsky, “Bad
Loans Hit the Oil Patch,” The Wall Street Journal,
March 25, 2016, A1., 2013.
14. M. Pilon, “What Is Commercial Paper and Why
Does It Matter?” The Wall Street Journal, October
7, 2008, http://blogs.wsj.com/wallet /2008/10/07
/what-is-commercial-paper-and-why-does-it-matter
/tab/print/, accessed March 24, 2013.
15. “Commercial Paper Rates: Derived from Data
Supplied by The Depository Trust & Clearing
Corporation,” Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, February 1, 2017, https://www
.federalreserve.gov/releases/cp/rates.htm, accessed
February 2, 2017.
16. J. White, “Cash Managers Favored Commercial Paper in January,” The Wall Street Journal,
February 6, 2013, http://blogs.wsj.com /cfo/2013
/02/06/cash-managers-favored-commercial
-paper-in-january/, accessed March 24, 2013;
J. Willhite, “Finance Execs Dumped Commercial
Paper in December—The CFO Report, http://
blogs.wsj.com/cfo/2015/01/22/finance-execs
-dumped-commercial-paper-in-december/?KEYW
-ORDS=%22commercial+paper%22, January 22,
2015, accessed April 9, 2015; T. Shumsky, “Companies Pare Government Bond Holdings, Favor Commercial Paper in August—CFO Journal,” The Wall
Street Journal, August 8, 2016, http://blogs.wsj.com
/cfo/2016/08/08/companies-pare-government-bond
-holdings-favor-commercial-paper-in-august/,
accessed February 2, 2017.

350

17. “Alphabet, Inc. Financials,” Google Finance,
December 31, 2016, https://www.google.com
/finance?q=NASDAQ%3AGOOGL&fstype=ii&ei
=L62TWPGWCMS1jAHFtYj4Dg.
18. “Net Private Saving: Domestic Business: Undistributed Corporate Profits [B057RC1Q027SBEA],”
U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, retrieved
from FRED, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis,
December 22, 2016, https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series
/B057RC1Q027SBEA, accessed February 2, 2017.
19. “Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Historical Prices,
February 3, 2004 to February 2, 2017,” Google
Finance, https://www.google.com/finance/histo
rical?cid=4376&startdate=Feb%203%2C%20
2004&enddate=Feb%203%2C%202017&num
=30&ei=CZiUWKCbK4e62Aam_4XoCQ&start
=0, accessed February 3, 2017.
20. “Why Do companies Issue Debt and Bonds?
Can’t They Just Borrow from the Bank?, Investopedia, http://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers /05
/reasonforcorporatebonds.asp, accessed on
February 3, 2017.
21. C. Boston, “Dell Sells $20 Billion of Bonds in
Year’s Second-Biggest Deal,” Bloomberg, May 17,
2016, https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles
/2016-05-17/dell-said-to-boost-bond-offering-for
-emc-takeover-to-20-billion, accessed February
6, 2017; R. King, “Dell Closes $60 Billion Merger
with EMC,” The Wall Street Journal, September 7,
2016, https://www.wsj.com/articles/dell-closes
-60-billion-merger-with-emc-1473252540, accessed
February 6, 2017; M. de la Merced, “How Dell
Raised $67 Billion for the Biggest Tech Deal Ever,”
The New York Times, August 5, 2016, https://www
.nytimes.com/2016/08/06/business/dealbook/how
-dell-pieced-together-67-billion-to-buy-emc.html?
_r=0, accessed February 6, 2017; M. de la Merced
and Q. Hardy, “Dell in $24 Billion Deal to Go Private,”
The New York Times, February 5, 2013, https://
dealbook.nytimes.com/2013/02/05/dell-sets-23-8
-billion-deal-to-go-private/, accessed February 6, 2017;
J. McGurk, S. McDermid, V. Amin, and I. Chan,
“Making Sense of Dell + EMC + VMware,” Andreessen Horowitz, October 26, 2015, http://a16z
.com/2015/10/26/dell-emc-vmware/, accessed
February 6, 2017; “Dell-EMC Acquisition Deal:
How is the Debt Being Financed?,” Zacks Equity
Research, April 8, 2016, https://www.zacks.com
/stock/news/212818/dellemc-acquisition-deal-how
-is-the-debt-being-financed, accessed February 6,
2017; E. Platt, “Dell Bonds Draw $85bn in Investor
Orders,” Financial Times, May 17, 2016, https://
www.ft.com/content/b40877ac-1c48-11e6-a7bc
-ee846770ec15, accessed February 6, 2017.
22. “Restructuring Information: Investor FAQ,”
Arch Coal, www.archcoal.com/restructuring/pdfs
/FINAL%20ACI%20Agreement%20-%20Chapter
%2011%20Investor%20FAQ.pdf, accessed
February 3, 2017; S. Chaney, “Arch Coal Emerges
from Chapter 11,” The Wall Street Journal,
October 5, 2016, https://www.wsj.com/articles
/arch-coal-emerges-from-chapter-11-1475684184,
accessed February 3, 2017.
23. M. Isaac and M. de la Merced, “Uber Turns to
Saudi Arabia for $3.5 Billion Cash Infusion,” The
New York Times, June 1, 2016, https://www.nytimes.
com/2016/06/02/technology/uber-investment-saudi
-arabia.html?_r=0, accessed February 3, 2017;
D. MacMillan, “Uber Raises $3.5 Billion From
Saudi Fund,” The Wall Street Journal, June 1, 2016,
https://www.wsj.com/articles/uber-raises-3-5-billion
-from-saudi-fund-1464816529, accessed February 3,
2017.

24. Chris Arnold, “Financial Sectors’ New
Buzzword Is Deleverage,” NPR, http://www.npr
.org /templates/story/story.php?storyId=94795760,
accessed August 9, 2009; James Saft, “Deleveraging,
Now Only in Early Stages, Will Transform the Banking
Industry,” The New York Times, http://www.nytimes
.com/2008/06/26/business/worldbusiness /26iht-col27
.1.14006619.html?_r=1, accessed August 9, 2009;
“Deleveraging: A Fate Worse than Debt,” Economist, http://www.economist.com/businessfinance
/displaystory.cfm?story _id=12306060, accessed
August 9, 2009.
25. “Brief Summary of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act. United
States Senate Committee on Banking,: Housing
and Urban Affairs, http://banking.senate.gov
/public/_files/070110_Dodd_Frank_Wall_Street
_Reform_comprehensive_summary_Final.pdf.
26. “Stock Information | Dividend History,” Caterpillar, December 14, 2016, http://www.caterpillar.
com/en/investors/stock-information/dividendhistory.html, accessed February 3, 2017; M. Bird,
“Dividends Eat Up Bigger Slice of Company
Profits,” The Wall Street Journal, , https://www
.wsj.com/articles/dividends-eat-up-bigger-slice-ofcompany-profits-1471565154, accessed February 3,
2017; B. Eisen, “Dividends Are What Matter Now,”
The Wall Street Journal, August 24, 2016, https://
www.wsj.com/articles/dividends-are-what-matter
-now-1472081992, accessed February 3, 2017;
R. Teitelbaum, “As Dow Industrials Pass 20000,
CFOs Will Reassess Buybacks,” The Wall Street
Journal, January 25, 2017, http://blogs.wsj.com
/cfo/2017/01/25/as-dow-industrials-pass-20000-cfos
-will-reassess-buybacks/, accessed February 3, 2017.
27. A. Kadet, “A Book Store Glut Proves Print Isn’t
Dead—Just Used,” The Wall Street Journal, July
16, 2016, p. A16.
28. J. Rosevear, “Why Toyota’s Japanese Factories
Will Shut Down Next Week,” The Motley Fool,
February 1, 2016, http://www.fool.com/investing
/general/2016/02/01/why-toyotas-japanese-factories
-will-shut-down-next.aspx, accessed March 27,
2016.
29. T. Francis and V. Monga, “Businesses Ready
to Ramp Up Investment,” The Wall Street Journal,
January 3, 2017, p. B1.
30. M. Campbell and P. Levring, “Denmark: Land
Below Zero Where Negative Interest Rates Are
Normal,” Bloomberg, June 6, 2016, https://www
.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-06-06/denmark
-land-below-zero-where-negative-interest-rates-are
-normal, accessed February 7, 2017; K. Davidson,
“Would Negative Rates Work in the U.S.,” The Wall
Street Journal, April 14, 2016, https://www.wsj
.com/articles/would-negative-rates-work-in-the-u-s
-1460493711, accessed February 7, 2017; C. Duxbury
and D. Gauthier-Villars, “Negative Rates Around
the World: How One Danish Couple Gets Paid Interest on Their Mortgage,” The Wall Street Journal,
April 14, 2016, https://www.wsj.com/articles/the
-upside-down-world-of-negative-interest-rates
-1460643111, accessed February 7, 2017; C. Forelle,
“Everything You Need to Know About Negative
Rates,” The Wall Street Journal, August 8, 2016,
https://www.wsj.com/articles/everything-you-need
-to-know-about-negative-rates-1456700481, accessed
February 7, 2017; G. Kantchev, C. Whittall, and
M. Inada, “Are Negative Rates Backfiring? Here’s
Some Early Evidence,” The Wall Street Journal,
August 8, 2016, https://www.wsj.com/articles/are
-negative-rates-backfiring-heres-some-early-evidence
-1470677642, accessed February 7, 2017; J. Mackintosh,

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

“What Comes After Negative Rates? Helicopter
Money,” The Wall Street Journal, April 14, 2016,
https://www.wsj.com/articles/what-comes-after-negative
-rates-helicopter-money-1460646993, accessed
February 7, 2017.
Pg. 148 Fact: “Nielsen: 50% of Global Consumers
Surveyed Willing to Pay More for Goods, Services
From Socially Responsible Companies, Up From
2011,” Nielsen, August 6, 2013, http://www.nielsen
.com/content/corporate/us/en/press-room/2013
/nielsen-50-percent-of-global-consumers-surveyed
-willing-to-pay-more-fo.html.

10
1. J. Zweig, “Inching Your Way Toward Wealth
with Your Phone—MoneyBeat,” The Wall Street
Journal, February 3, 2017, http://blogs.wsj.com
/moneybeat/2017/02/03/inching-your-way-toward
-wealth-with-your-phone/, accessed February 8,
2017.
2. Ibid.
3. Financial Accounts of the United States: Flow of
Funds, Balance Sheets, and Integrated Macroeconomic Accounts, L.110 Private Depository
Institutions (1), Federal Reserve Statistical Release,
December 8, 2016, http://www.federalreserve.gov
/releases/z1/Current/z1.pdf, accessed February 8,
2017.
4. M. Farell, A. Hufford, and J. Marshall, “Snapchat Parent Snap Inc. Files for IPO,” The Wall
Street Journal, February 2, 2017, https://www.wsj
.com/articles/snapchat-parent-snap-inc-files-for
-ipo-1486071371, accessed February 9, 2017;
S. Grocer, “Snap’s IPO Filing: Everything You Need
to Know,” The Wall Street Journal, February 2,
2017, http://blogs.wsj.com/moneybeat/2017/02/02
/snaps-ipo-filing-everything-you-need-to-know/, accessed February 9, 2017; J. Marshall and M. Shields,
“Snap’s IPO Filing Offers Peek Into Its Advertising Strategy, Snap’s IPO Filing Offers Peek Into
Its Advertising Strategy,” The Wall Street Journal,
February 2, 2017, https://www.wsj.com/articles
/snaps-ipo-filing-offers-peek-into-its-advertising
-strategy-1486078983, accessed February 9, 2017;
J. Stern, “How to Use Snapchat,” The Wall Street
Journal, January 12, 2016, https://www.wsj.com
/articles/snapchat-101-learn-to-love-the-worlds
-most-confusing-social-network-1452628322, accessed February 9, 2017; G. Wells, “Snap Lists Sustaining User Growth as One of Its Biggest Risks,”
The Wall Street Journal, February 2, 2017, https://
www.wsj.com/articles/snap-lists-sustaining-user
-growth-as-one-of-its-biggest-risk-1486075541,
https://www.wsj.com/articles/snap-lists-sustaining
-user-growth-as-one-of-its-biggest-risk-1486075541.
5. “How Is a Credit Union Different Than a Bank?,”
MyCreditUnion.gov, http://www.mycreditunion.gov
/about-credit-unions/Pages/How-is-a-Credit-Union
-Different-than-a-Bank.aspx, accessed February 8,
2017.
6. Financial Accounts of the United States: Flow of
Funds, Balance Sheets, and Integrated Macroeconomic Accounts, Table L.114 Credit Unions,
Federal Reserve Statistical Release, December 8,
2016, http://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/z1
/Current/z1.pdf, accessed February 8, 2017.
7. “Mortgage Debt Outstanding,” Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, December
2016, http://www.federalreserve.gov/econresdata

/releases/mortoutstand/current.htm, accessed
February 8, 2017.
8. Timothy Curry and Lynn Shibut, “The Cost of
the Savings and Loan Crisis: Truth and Consequences,” FDIC Banking Review, December 2000,
http://www.fdic.gov/bank/analytical/banking/2000dec
/brv13n2_2.pdf, accessed March 28, 2016.
9. Ibid.
10. “Deposit Insurance FAQs,” Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, https://www.fdic.gov/deposit
/deposits/faq.html, accessed February 8, 2017.
11. “Towers of Babel: Is There Such a Thing as a
Skyscraper Curse?,” Economist, March 28, 2015,
http://www.economist.com/news/finance-and
-economics/21647289-there-such-thing-skyscraper
-curse-towers-babel, accessed March 30, 2016;
“World’s Tallest Buildings 2016,” SkyscraperPage,
March 2016, http://skyscraperpage.com
/diagrams/?searchID5200, accessed March 30,
2016; “World Skyscraper Construction 2016,”
SkyscraperPage, http://skyscraperpage.com/
diagrams/?searchID=202, accessed March 30, 2016;
J. Anderlini, “The Chinese Chronicle of a Crash
Foretold,” Financial Times, February 24, 2016,
http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/65a584e2-da53
-11e5-98fd-06d75973fe09.html#axzz41E0r3hSt,
accessed March 30, 2016; W. Pesek, “The Bigger
Asia Builds, The Harder It Falls,” Barron’s, January
21, 2016, http://www.barrons.com/articles/thebigger-asia-builds-the-harder-it-falls-1453337389,
accessed March 30, 2016; R. Dobbs, S. Lund,
J. Woetzel, and M. Mutafchieva, “Debt and (Not
Much) Deleveraging,” McKinsey & Company,
February 2015, http://www.mckinsey.com/global
-themes/employment-and-growth/debt-and-not
-much-deleveraging, accessed March 30, 2016.
12. “About the PCAOB,” Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, https://pcaobus.org
/About, accessed February 8, 2017.
13. “Brief Summary of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act,” United
States Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and
Urban Affairs, http://banking.senate.gov/public/
_files/070110_Dodd_Frank_Wall_Street_Reform
_comprehensive_summary_Final.pdf, accessed
April 13, 2015; “About FSOC,” Financial Stability
Oversight Council, https://www.treasury.gov/initiatives
/fsoc/about/Pages/default.aspx, accessed February 8,
2017.
14. T. Higgins and C. Sweet, “Tesla Says SolarCity
Deal Would Boost Balance Sheet,” The Wall Street
Journal, November 1, 2016, https://www.wsj.com
/articles/tesla-says-solarcity-deal-would-boost
-balance-sheet-1478035626, accessed February 8,
2017.
15. T. Higgins and C. Sweet, “Tesla, SolarCity
Merger Gets Shareholder Approval,” The Wall
Street Journal, November 17, 2016, https://www
.wsj.com/articles/tesla-solarcity-merger-gets
-shareholder-approval-1479417860, accessed
February 8, 2017.
16. Press Release, “Chesapeake Energy Corporation Reinstates Payment of Quarterly Preferred
Stock Dividends,” Chesapeake Energy, January 20,
2017, http://www.chk.com/media/news/press
-releases/Chesapeake+Energy+Corporation+
Reinstates+Payment+Of+Quarterly+Preferred+Sto
ck+Dividends+1+20+2017+, accessed February 8,
2017; L. Cook, “Oil Patch Is Bracing For Further
Cuts in Jobs,” The Wall Street Journal, July 27,
2015, p. B1; B. Levisohn, “Chesapeake Energy:
Sending Signals—Stocks to Watch,” Barron’s,

January 23, 2017, http://blogs.barrons.com
/stockstowatchtoday/2017/01/23/chesapeake
-energy-sending-signals/, accessed February 8,
2017.
17. Some preferred stock contains a “participating”
feature on its dividend. This means that if the dividend
paid to common stockholders exceeds some specified
amount, the board must also raise the dividend to preferred stockholders. See Participating Preferred Stock,
Investopedia, http://www.investopedia.com/terms
/p/participatingpreferredstock.asp, accessed April 13,
2015.
18. R. Atkins, “Why Investors Will Make 100-year
Loans,” Financial Times, June 4, 2015, https:
//www.ft.com/content/9d794036-09cd-11e5-a6a8
-00144feabdc0, accessed February 8, 2017.
19. R. Lehmann, “The Coming Bond Default
Wave,” Forbes, September 8, 2008, http://www
.forbes.com/free_forbes/2008/1013/130.html,
accessed February 8, 2017.
20. M. Krantz, “Corporate Default Rate Expected
to Jump 30%,” USA Today, August 19, 2016, http://
www.usatoday.com/story/money/markets
/2016/08/19/corporate-default-rate-expected-jump
-30-soon/88967964/, accessed February 8, 2017.
21. P. Vigna, “The Party’s Over for Corporate
Bonds, as Moody’s Warns of Rising Defaults,” The
Wall Street Journal, March 1, 2016, http://blogs.wsj.
com/moneybeat/2016/03/01/the-partys-over-for
-corporate-bonds-as-moodys-warns-of-rising
-defaults/, accessed February 8, 2017.
22. N. Friedman, “Berkshire’s B Shares Are
Second Class No More—MoneyBeat,” The Wall
Street Journal, December 14, 2016, http://blogs
.wsj.com/moneybeat/2016/12/14/berkshires
-b-shares-are-second-class-no-more/, accessed
February 9, 2017.
23. J. Brown, “What Investors Should Know
About Callable Bonds,” U.S. News & World
Report, August 22, 2016, http://money.usnews.com
/investing/articles/2016-08-22/what-investors-should
-know-about-callable-bonds, accessed February 10,
2017; B. Eisen, “Falling Rates Create Bond-Call
Frenzy,” The Wall Street Journal, August 8, 2016,
https://www.wsj.com/articles/falling-rates-create
-bond-call-frenzy-1470671759, accessed February 10,
2017; B. Eisen, “Bond Investors Fear These Words:
Call Me Maybe?” The Wall Street Journal, August 1,
2016, http://blogs.wsj.com/moneybeat/2016/08/01
/bond-investors-fear-these-words-call-me-maybe/,
accessed February 10, 2017; S. Goldfarb, “Microsoft
Sets 2017 High With $17 Billion Bond Sale,” The
Wall Street Journal, January 30,2017, https://www
.wsj.com/articles/microsoft-sets-terms-on-17-billion
-bond-sale-1485807664, accessed February 10,
2017.
24. “Build a Diversified Portfolio with Just a Few
Vanguard Funds,” The Vanguard Group, https://
personal.vanguard.com/pdf/s050.pdf?2210105586,
accessed February 9, 2017.
25. “SLIM—The Obesity Thematic ETF: Invest
in the Battle against Obesity,” Janus Capital Group,
https://www.janus.com/advisor/exchange-traded
-funds/janus-obesity-thematic-etf, accessed
February 9, 2017; W. Updegrave, “ExchangeTraded Funds: Avoid Offbeat ETFs, Stick to Investing Basics,” Money, June 22, 2016, http://time.com
/money/4374957/why-you-should-avoid-etfs-investing
-basics/, accessed February 9, 2017.
26. T. Puko, M. Jarzemsky, and M. Farrell,
“Diamond in the Rough? Coal IPOs Rise,” The
Wall Street Journal, February 4, 2017, B1.

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

351

27. “Intercontinental Exchange Fact Sheet,”
Intercontinental Exchange, February 2017, https://
www.theice.com/publicdocs/ICE_at_a_glance.pdf,
accessed February 9, 2017.
28. “List: Access Capital,” NASDAQ, http://
business.nasdaq.com/list, accessed February 9,
2017.
29. “David Bowie: Sound and Vision,” The Wall
Street Journal, January 11, 2016, http://graphics.wsj.
com/image-grid/david-bowie/, accessed March 30,
2016; J. Boulden, “David Bowie Made Financial
History with Music Bond,” CNN Money, January 11,
2016, http://money.cnn.com/2016/01/11/media
/bowie-bonds-royalties/, accessed February 24, 2016;
A. Russell, “David Bowie Dies at 69 After Battle
With Cancer,” The Wall Street Journal, January 11,
2016, http://www.wsj.com/articles/david-bowie-dies
-at-69-after-battle-with-cancer-1452497400, accessed
February 24, 2016; I. Fraser, “Bowie Bonds: How
David Bowie Became a Pioneer in the Worlds of
Finance and the Internet,” The Telegraph, January
11, 2016, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance
/newsbysector/banksandfinance/12093143/Bowie
-Bonds-How-David-Bowie-became-a-pioneer-in-the
-worlds-of-finance-and-the-internet.html, accessed
March 30, 2016; T. Stubbington and M. Bird, “David
Bowie: The Man Who Sold the World . . . and
Bonds,” The Wall Street Journal, January 11, 2016,
http://www.wsj.com/articles/david-bowie-the-man
-who-sold-the-worldand-bonds-1452542807,
accessed March 30, 2016.
30. L. Kramer and S. Smith, “Can Robo Advisers
Replace Human Financial Advisers?,” The Wall
Street Journal, February 28, 2016, http://www.wsj
.com/articles/can-robo-advisers-replace-human
-financial-advisers-1456715553, accessed April 6,
2016; P. Sullivan, “The Computer as a Financial
Planner,” The New York Times, June 20, 2015,
B5; Powell, Robert, “Behavioral Economist Richard Thaler on the Key to Retirement Savings,”
The Wall Street Journal, November 29, 2015,
accessed March 22, 2016, http://www.wsj
.com/articles/behavioral-economist-richard
-thaler-on-the-key-to-retirement-savings
-1448852602; “SmartDeposit: Auto-Deposit, But
Smarter,” Betterment, https://www.betterment.
com/resources/inside-betterment/product-news
/smartdeposit-auto-deposit-but-smarter/,
accessed April 5, 2016.
31. K. Bahler, “Apple: Macbook Pro Prices Rise
Because of Brexit,” Time Magazine, October 28,
2016, http://time.com/money/4549675/apple
-macbook-pro-prices-expensive-uk-british-pound/,
accessed February 10, 2017; T. Black & A. Webb,
“Trump’s Strong Dollar Means Weaker Sales at
Apple,” Bloomberg, February 3, 2017, https://
www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-02-03
/trump-s-stronger-dollar-means-weaker-sales-at
-apple-honeywell, accessed February 10, 2017;
S. Chaudhuri, “Unilever Raises U.K. Prices as
Pound Falls,” The Wall Street Journal, October 13,
2016, https://www.wsj.com/articles/unilever-says
-it-resolves-pricing-dispute-with-tesco-1476380119,
accessed February 10, 2017; T. Francis and
E. Sylvers, “Strong Dollar Has Companies Counting the Cost—And Opportunities,” The Wall Street
Journal, December 7, 2016, https://www.wsj.com
/articles/strong-dollar-has-companies-countingthe-costand-opportunities-1481106610, accessed
February 10, 2017; J. Titcomb, “Apple to Raise UK
App Prices by 25pc after Sterling’s Recent Losses,”
Telegraph, January 17, 2017, http://www.telegraph

352

.co.uk/technology/2017/01/17/apple-raise-uk-app
-prices-25pc-post-brexit-fall-pound/, accessed
February 10, 2017.
32. L. Carlozo, “Why Warren Buffett Loves
Buy-and-Hold Stocks,” US News, September 7,
2016, http://money.usnews.com/investing
/articles/2016-09-07/why-warren-buffett
-loves-buy-and-hold-stocks, accessed February 9,
2017.

11
1. Derek Thompson, “War and Peace in 30
Seconds: How Much Does the Military Spend on
Ads?” The Atlantic, January 30, 2012, http://www
.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2012/01/war-and
-peace-in-30-seconds-how-much-does-the-military
-spend-on-ads/252222/, accessed February 9, 2014;
Stuart Elliott, “Army to Use Webcasts From Iraq
for Recruiting,” The New York Times, November
10, 2008, http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/11
/business/media/11adco.html, accessed
February 22, 2009; “Army Strong! Army Smash!”
Armchair Generalist, October 11, 2006, http://
armchairgeneralist.typepad.com/my_weblog/2006
/10/army_strong_arm.html, accessed April 19,
2011; “U.S. Army Searches New Agency, Defines
Hispanic Market as Key Target,” Portada, August
12, 2010, http://www.portada-online.com/article
.aspx?aid=6604, accessed April 19, 2010; Andrew
McMains, “U.S. Army Puts Marketing in Play,”
AdWeek, August 11, 2010, http://www.adweek.com
/news/advertising-branding/us-army-puts-marketing
-play-103040, accessed June 16, 2012.
2. Al Ries, “What Marketers Can Learn from
Obama’s Campaign,” Advertising Age, November 5,
2008, http://adage.com/moy2008/article?article
_id=131810, accessed February 22, 2009.
3. Thomas Moore, “Tourism Officials Report
Record 42.9M Las Vegas Visitors in 2016,” Las
Vegas Sun, January 10, 2017, https://lasvegassun.
com/news/2017/jan/10/tourism-officials-report
-record-429m-las-vegas-vis/, accessed April 21,
2117.
4. “Consumer Satisfaction Benchmarks by Industry,” The American Customer Satisfaction Index,
http://www.theacsi.org/customer-satisfaction
-benchmarks/benchmarks-by-industry, accessed
April 22, 2017.
5. Rama Ramaswami, “Eight Reasons to Keep Your
Customers Loyal,” Mulitchannel Merchant, January
12, 2005, http://multichannelmerchant.com/opsandfulfillment/advisor/Brandi-custloyal, accessed
February 24, 2009.
6. June Campbell, “The Psychology of
Color in Marketing,” 4hb, http://www.4hb.
com/0107psysocolormarket.html, accessed May 22,
2017; Al Martinovic, “Color psychology in marketing,” ImHosted, June 21, 2004, http://developers
.evrsoft.com/article/web-design/graphics-multimedia-design/color-psychology-in-marketing.shtml;
Suzanne Roman, “Colors that Sell,” ImHosted,
November 29, 2004, http://developers.evrsoft.com
/article/web-design/graphics-multimedia-design
/colors-that-sell.shtml; Pam Belluck, “Reinvent
Wheel? Blue Room. Defusing a Bomb? Red
Room,” The New York Times, February 6, 2009,
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/06/science
/06color.html, accessed February 26, 2009.

7. Trefis Team, “Nike’s China Problem,” Trefis,
March 20, 2014, http://www.trefis.com
/stock/nke/articles/229536/marynikes-china
-problem/2014-03-20, accessed April 18, 2015;
Andria Cheng, “Shoe Makers Gunning for
Olympian Feat,” Market Watch, May 9, 2008,
http://www.marketwatch.com/news/story/story.
aspx?guid={781CC2E2-2B3F-4FF5-A0C5
-0FB962D7E204}, accessed February 24, 2009;
Matt Townsend and Robert Fenne, “Nike Climbs
to Record as Orders Surge, Profit Rises,” Bloomberg,
September 24, 2010, http://www.businessweek
.com/news/2010-09-24/nike-climbs-to-record-as
-orders-surge-profit-rises.html, accessed April 12,
2011; Laurie Burkitt, “In China, Nike Sets Out to
Alter Sports Mindset,” The Wall Street Journal,
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970
204450804576624900309968790.html, accessed
June 17, 2012; Bradley McNew, “China Is Still
Nike Inc.’s Greatest Opportunity for Growth,”
Motley Fool, September 29, 2015, http://www
.fool.com/investing/general/2015/09/29/china-still
-represents-nike-incs-greatest-opportun.aspx,
accessed May 1, 2016; Steve Schaefer, “If China
Is Collapsing, Nobody Told Nike,” Forbes,
September 25, 2015, http://www.forbes.com/sites
/steveschaefer/2015/09/25/nike-earnings-china
-jordan/#226bb6c44c09, accessed May 1, 2016;
Trefis Team, “How China Could Be the Key Driver
of Nike’s Future Revenues,” Forbes, January 13, 2013,
http://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations
/2016/01/13/how-china-could-be-the-key-driver
-of-nikes-future-revenues/#11b8ddcb4c2d,
accessed September 4, 2016.
8. K. C. Ifeanyi, “Exclusive: Viacom’s New Study
Is A Marketer’s Blueprint for Millennials,” Fast
Company, April 19, 2017, https://www.fastcompany.
com/40406542/exclusive-viacoms-new-study-is-a
-marketers-blueprint-for-millennials, accessed
April 23, 2017.
9. “Facebook: Friend, Foe, or Frenemy?” Newsweek, May 27, 2010, http://www.newsweek.com
/blogs/techtonic-shifts/2010/05/26/facebook-friend
-foe-or-frenemy-.html, accessed April 11, 2010.
10. Rebecca Borison, “The Top 10 Social Media
Fails of 2014,” Inc., December 10, 2014, http://
www.inc.com/rebecca-borison/top-10-social-media
-fails-2014.html, accessed April 19, 2015; Anthony
Volastro, “Don’t Tell Customers They’re Fat: 2013’s
Biggest Corporate Goofs,” NBC, February 3, 2014,
http://www.nbcnews.com/business/business-news
/dont-tell-customers-theyre-fat-2013s-biggest
-corporate-goofs-f2D11785316, accessed February 9,
2014; Ashley Lutz, “Abercrombie & Fitch Refuses
to Make Clothes for Large Women,” Business
Insider, May 3, 2013, http://www.businessinsider
.com/abercrombie-wants-thin-customers-2013-5,
accessed February 9, 2014; Jerry Barrow, “Why
This Nivea for Men Ad Is ‘Uncivilized,’” The Urban
Daily, August 17, 2011, http://theurbandaily.com
/1485855/why-this-nivea-for-men-ad-is-uncivilized
-opinion/, accessed June 17, 2012; “Marketing
Muck-Ups: The Biggest Follies of 2011,” AdvertisingAge, December 12, 2011, http://adage.com
/article/special-report-book-of-tens-2011/marketing
-muck-ups-biggest-follies-2011/231468/, accessed
June 17, 2012; Phil Whaba, “Hall of Shame: The 9
Worst Marketing Fails by Retailers in 2015,” Fortune, December 22, 2015, http://fortune.com/2015
/12/22/retail-ads-worst-2015/, accessed May 1, 2016.
11. “The Problem with Sustainability Marketing?
Not Enough Me, Me, Me,” March 9, 2015, https://

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

www.theguardian.com/sustainable-business
/behavioural-insights/2015/mar/09/problem
-sustainability-marketing-not-enough-me, accessed
April 22, 2017.
12. “Environment a Fair-weather Priority for Consumers,” press release, Penn, Schoen & Bergland,
June 3, 2008, http://www.psbresearch.com/press
_release_Jun3-2008.htm, accessed February 24,
2009; Gloria Sin, “Green Fashion: Is It More Than
Marketing Hype?,” Fast Company, May 28, 2008,
http://www.fastcompany.com/articles/2008/05
/green-fashion-hype.html, accessed February 24,
2009; “‘Green Fashion,’ Formerly Hippie, Now
Hip!,” CBS News, February 21, 2008, http://www
.cbsnews.com/stories/2008/02/21/earlyshow/living
/beauty/main3855868.shtml, accessed February
24, 2009.
Pg. 201 Fact: Marketing Charts staff, “Facebook
Posts Get Half Their Reach Within 30 Minutes of
Being Published, “November 2, 2012, MarketingCharts, http://www.marketingcharts.com/online
/facebook-posts-get-half-their-reach-within-30-minutes
-of-being-published-24453/, accessed September
2014.

12
1. Melissa Sowry, “The Ultimate Energy Drink:
Cocaine?,” ABCNews, September 18, 2006, http://
abcnews.go.com/Health/story?id=2459718&page
=1#.UU45fjcwok9, accessed March 20, 2013; “Top
25 Biggest Product Flops of All Time,” DailyFinance,
http://www.dailyfinance.com/photos/top-25-biggest
-product-flops-of-all-time/#slide=3662621, accessed
March 20, 2013.
2. “Characteristics of a Great Name,” The Brand
Name Awards, Brighter Naming, http://www
.brandnameawards.com/top10factors.html, accessed
April 10, 2005.
3. Adam Bass, “Brand Extensions: Marketing in
Inner Space,” Brand Channel, http://www
.brandchannel.com/papers_review.asp?sp_id= 296,
accessed March 25, 2007; Reena Jana, “Brand
Extensions We Could Do Without,” BusinessWeek,
August 7, 2006, http://www.businessweek.com
/magazine/content/06_32/b3996420.htm; “The 20
Worst Product Failures,” Sales HQ, http://saleshq.
monster.com/news/articles/2655-the-20-worst
-product-failures, accessed June 20, 2012.
4. Alex Palmer, “Private Label Growing Rapidly,”
AdWeek, September 22, 2009, http://www.adweek
.com/brand-marketing/private-label-growing-rapidly
-105007/, accessed June 14, 2010; Christopher Durham, “Ten Private Brand Trends that Shook North
America,” My[Private]Brand, December 9, 2010,
http://mypbrand.com/2010/12/09/10-private-brand
-trends-that-shook-north-america/, accessed May 2,
2011; “IRI: Fewer Shoppers Buying Private Label
Versus Last Year,” Store Brands Decisions, http://
www.storebrandsdecisions.com/news/2011/04/05
/iri-fewer-shoppers-buying-private-label-versus
-last-year, posted April 5, 2011, accessed May 2,
2011; Christopher Durham, “Private Brand Sales
Outpace National Brands—PLMA’s 2013 Private
Label Yearbook,” My Private Brand, June 28, 2013,
http://mypbrand.com/2013/06/28/private-brands
-sales-outpace-national-brands-plmas-2013-private
-label-yearbook/, accessed February 12, 2014.
5. “The USA Apparel Market Research Report,”
Informat Fashion, June 2010, http://www.infomat

.com/fido/getpublication.fcn?&type=research&Sear
chString=apparel&id=737870ST0000927&start
=1&tr=17Infomat, accessed June 14, 2010.
6. “Not on the List? The Truth About Impulse
Purchases,” Knowledge@Wharton, January 7,
2009, http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.
cfm?articleid=2132, accessed February 28, 2009.
7. “3M: Commitment to Sustainability,” GreenBiz
Leaders website, 1999.
8. “Wacky Warning Labels 2009 Winners Announced,”
Foundation for Fair Civil Justice, August 16, 2009,
http://www.foundationforfairciviljustice.org/news
/in_depth/wacky_warning_labels_2009_winners
_announced/, accessed June 14, 2010; Bob Dorigo
Jones, “Wacky Warning Labels Show Toll of Frivolous Lawsuits,” Bob Dorigo Jones, June 8, 2012,
http://www.bobdorigojones.com/, accessed June 20,
2012; Bob Dorigo Jones, “Deadline for Entering
15th Annual Wacky Warning Labels™ Contest
Is May 15,” Bob Dorigo Jones, May 7, 2012,
http://www.bobdorigojones.com/, accessed June 20,
2012.
9. Dawn C. Chmielewski, “Binge-viewing Is Transforming the Television Experience,” The Los Angeles
Times, February 1, 2013, http://articles.latimes
.com/2013/feb/01/entertainment/la-et-ct-binge
-viewing-20130201, accessed March 20, 2013;
David Hinkley, “Americans Spend 34 Hours a Week
Watching TV, According to Nielsen Numbers,” Daily
News, September 19, 2012, http://www.nydailynews
.com/entertainment/tv-movies/americans-spend
-34-hours-week-watching-tv-nielsen-numbers
-article-1.1162285, accessed March 20, 2013; Stine
Thorhauge, “How People Spend Their Time
Online,” Mind-Jumpers, May 24, 2012, http://www
.mindjumpers.com/blog/2012/05/time-spend
-online/, accessed March 20, 2013; “U.S. Consumer
Online Behavior Survey Results 2007 Part One:
Wireline Usage,” International Data Corporation
website, February 19, 2008, http://www.idc.com
/getdoc.jsp?containerId=prUS21096308, accessed
March 3, 2009; Dan Frommer, “Why Video On
Demand Is Still Cable’s Game to Lose,” The
Business Insider, September 5, 2008, http://www
.businessinsider.com/2008/9/why-video-on
-demand-is-still-cable-s-game-to-lose, accessed
March 3, 2009; Glenn Abel, “Streaming Vids Boost
Netflix profits,” Download Movies 101, January 29,
2009, http://downloadmovies101.com/wordpress
-1/2009/01/29/streaming-vids-boost-netflix-profits/,
accessed March 3, 2009; “Casting the Big Movie
Download Roles,” eMarketer, September 7, 2007,
http://www.emarketer.com/Article.aspx?id=1005346,
accessed March 3, 2009; Clark Fredricksen, “Time
Watching TV Still Tops Internet,” December 15,
2010, eMarketer Blog, http://www.emarketer.com
/blog/index.php/time-spent-watching-tv-tops
-internet/, accessed May 4, 2011; “Average Time
Spent Online Per U.S. Visitor in 2010,” ComScore
Data Mine, January 11, 2011, http://www
.comscoredatamine.com/2011/01 /average-time
-spent-online-per-u-s-visitor-in-2010/, accessed
May 4, 2011; Erick Schonfeld, “How People Watch
TV Online and Off,” TechCrunch, January 8, 2012,
http://techcrunch.com /2012/01/08/how-peoplewatch-tv-online/, accessed June 20, 2012.
10. William C. Taylor, “Permission Marketing,”
Fast Company, December 18, 2007, http://www.
fastcompany.com/magazine/14/permission.html,
accessed March 3, 2009.
11. Bruce Horowitz, “Budweiser’s Clydesdale Wins
Ad Meter by a Nose,” USA Today, February 4, 2013,

http://www.usatoday.com/story/money/business/2013
/02/04/clydesdale-ad-wins-by-a-nose/1889693/,
accessed March 20, 2013; Bruce Horovitz, “‘Two Nobodies from Nowhere’ craft winning Super Bowl ad,”
USA Today, February 4, 2009, http://www.usatoday
.com/money/advertising/admeter/2009admeter.htm,
accessed March 4, 2009.
12. Professor Paul Herbig, Tristate University,
International Marketing Lecture Series, Session 6,
International Advertising, http://www.tristate.edu
/faculty/herbig/pahimadvstg.htm, accessed June 1,
2005; Karl Moore and Mark Smith, “Taking Global
Brands to Japan,” The Conference Board, http://
www.conference-board.org/worldwide/worldwide
_article.cfm?id=243&pg=1, accessed June 1, 2005.
13. “US Digital Display Ad Spending to Surpass
Search Ad Spending in 2016,” eMarketer, January
11, 2016, https://www.emarketer.com/Article/US
-Digital-Display-Ad-Spending-Surpass-Search-Ad
-Spending-2016/1013442, accessed April 29, 2017
14. “Mobile Gets One Out of Five Paid Search
Clicks,” eMarketer, May 6, 2013, http://www
.emarketer.com/Article/Mobile-Gets-One-of-Five
-Paid-Search-Clicks/1009865, accessed February 13,
2014; “Steady gains for mobile paid search,” eMarketer, February 22, 2013, http://www.emarketer
.com/Article/Steady-Gains-Mobile-Paid-Search
/1009686, accessed March 20, 2013; “Search
Marketing Trends: Back to Basics,” eMarketer,
February 2009, http://www.emarketer.com/Report.
aspx?code=emarketer_2000559, accessed June 18,
2010; “eMarketer: Display ad Growth Catching Up
with Search,” posted by Leah McBride Mensching,
December 16, 2010, sfnblog, http://www.sfnblog
.com/advertising/2010/12/emarketer_display_ad
_growth_catching_up.php, accessed May 11, 2011;
“US Online Ad Spend Poised to Grow 20% in 2011,”
eMarketer, June 8, 2011, http://www.emarketer
.com/Article.aspx?R=1008431, accessed June 20,
2012.
15. “Mobile Requires Revamped SEO, SEM Strategy,”
eMarketer, April 18, 2013, http://www.emarketer
.com/Article/Search-Gets-Mobile-Makeover
/1009822, accessed February 13, 2014; Pamela
Parker, “eMarketer: Among Online Ads, Search to
Gain Most New Dollars in 2011,” SearchEngine
Land, June 11, 2008, http://searchengineland.com
/emarketer-among-online-ads-search-to-gain-most
-new-dollars-in-2011-80707, accessed March 20,
2013; Adweek staff, “eMarketer: Search Is Vital in a
Recession,” Brandweek, February 25, 2009, http://
www.brandweek.com/bw/content_display /news
-and-features/digital/e3i195c363ab252f 976a2
dabde4d8ef2549, accessed March 3, 2009.
16. “Online Video Advertising Moves Front and
Center,” eMarketer, May 14, 2013, http://www
.emarketer.com/Article/Online-Video-Advertising
-Moves-Front-Center/1009886, accessed February 13,
2017; “U.S. Online Advertising Video Spending
2007–2013,” eMarketer, August 2008, http://www
.marketingcharts.com/television/emarketer-revises
-online-video-ad-spend-projections-downward-5679
/emarketer-online-video-ad-spend-us-2007-2013jpg/,
accessed June 18, 2010; “Promises, Promises: Will
Online Video Ads Deliver this Year?,” posted by
David Hallerman, December 9, 2010, The eMarketer Blog, http://www.emarketer.com/blog/index
.php /promises-promises-online-video-ads-deliver
-year/, accessed May 11, 2011; “US Online Ad
Spend Poised to Grow 20% in 2011,” eMarketer,
June 8, 2011, http://www.emarketer.com/Article
.aspx?R=1008431, accessed June 20, 2012.

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

353

17. “Social Media Claims More of Our Attention.
But Email’s Not Dead Yet,” posted by Meghan
Keane, August 2, 2010, eConsultancy, http://
econsultancy.com/us/blog/6366-social-media
-might-claim-a-lot-of-our-attention-but-email
-s-not-dead-yet, accessed May 11, 2011; Erik
Qualman, “Social Media ROI Examples & Video,”
posted November 12, 2009, Socialnomics, Social
Media Blog, http://socialnomics.net/2009/11/12
/social-media-roi-examples-video/, accessed June
28, 2010; Lauren Fisher, “The ROI of Social Media:
10 Case Studies,” The Next Web, July 16, 2011,
http://thenextweb.com/socialmedia/2011/07/16
/the-roi-of-social-media-10-case-studies/, accessed
June 21, 2012.
18. “Infographic: Native Advertising Grows Despite
Budget and Transparency Concerns,” Adweek,
February 16, 2015, http://www.adweek.com/news
/technology/infographic-native-advertising-grows
-despite-budget-and-transparency-concerns-162963,
accessed April 25, 2015.
19. Margot Peppers, “Crocs Get a Stylish Make-over
as Brand Hopes to DOUBLE Sales in Five Years—
But Can the Foam Shoe Move on from Its Ugly
Past?,” Daily Mail, July 19, 2013, http://www.dailymail
.co.uk/femail/article-2370360/Crocs-stylish-make
-brand-hopes-DOUBLE-sales-years--foam-shoe-ugly
-past.html, accessed February 15, 2013; “Pizza and a
Movie, Time Pop Chart,” Time Magazine, June 3,
2013, http://content.time.com/time/magazine/article
/0,9171,2144105,00.html, accessed February 15,
2014.
20. Abram Sauer, “Brandchannel’s 2004 Product
Placement Awards,” Brandchannel, February 21,
2005, http://www.brandchannel.com/start1.asp?fa
_id =251; Dale Buss, “A Product Placement Hall
of Fame,” BusinessWeek Online, June 22, 1998,
http://www.businessweek.com/1998/25/b3583062
.htm.
21. Angie Han, “‘Transformers: Age of Extinction’
Tops 2015 Product Placement Awards,” SlashFilm,
March 4, 2015, http://www.slashfilm.com/transformers
-age-of-extinction-tops-2015-product-placement
-awards/, accessed April 25, 2015; Abe Sauer,
“Announcing the 2013 BrandCameo Product Placement Award Winners,” BrandChannel, February 25,
2013, http://www.brandchannel.com/home/post/2013
/02/25/Brandchannel-9th-Brandcameo-Product
-Placement-Awards-022513.aspx, accessed March 20,
2013. Eric Slivka, “Apple tops 2010 film product
placement awards,” MacRumors, February 22, 2011,
http://www.macrumors.com/2011/02/22/apple-tops
-2010-film-product-placement-awards/, accessed
May 11, 2011.
22. Tatyana Shumsky, “United, Pepsi Outcry
Unlikely to Hurt Financial Results,” The Wall
Street Journal, April 15, 2017, https://www.wsj
.com/articles/united-pepsi-outcry-unlikely-to
-hurt-financial-results-1492250400, accessed
April 30, 2017.
23. Abe Sauer, “Product Placement Sees Global
Rise as Fans Face Saturated Entertainment,” BrandChannel, April 24, 2013, http://www.brandchannel.
com/home/post/2013/04/24/Product-Placement-On
-The-Rise-042413.aspx, accessed February 13, 2014;
Abe Sauer, “Announcing the 2013 BrandCameo
Product Placement Award Winners,” BrandChannel,
February 25, 2013, http://www.brandchannel
.com/home/post/2013/02/25/Brandchannel-9th
-Brandcameo-Product-Placement-Awards-022513
.aspx, accessed March 20, 2013; “PQ Media Market
Analysis Finds Global Product Placement Spending

354

Grew 37% in 2006; Forecast to Grow 30% in 2007,
Driven by Relaxed European Rules, Emerging
Asian Markets; Double-Digit Growth in U.S.
Decelerates,” PQ Media, March 14, 2007, http://
www.pqmedia.com/about-press-20070314-gppf
.html, accessed September 4, 2008; Jose Fermoso,
“DVR Households Swelling Ranks,” Portfolio,
December 16, 2008, http://www.portfolio.com/views
/blogs/the-tech-observer/2008/12/16/dvr-household
s-swelling-ranks, accessed March 4, 2009; “FCC
Opens Inquiry Into Stealthy TV Product Placement,”
USA Today, June 26, 2008, http://www.usatoday.com
/life/television/2008-06-26-fcc-advertising_N.htm,
accessed March 4, 2009; Bill Gorman, “DVRs now
in 30.6% of U.S. Households,” TV by the Numbers,
April 30, 2009, http://tvbythenumbers.com
/2009/04/30/dvrs-now-in-306-of-us-households/17779,
accessed June 16, 2010; Andrew Hampp, “Product
Placement Dipped Last Year for the First Time,”
AdAge, June 29, 2010, http://adage.com/article
/madisonvine-news/product-placement-dipped
-year-time/144720/, accessed May 11, 2011; Robert
Seidman, “DVR Penetration Grows to 39.7% of
Households, 42.2% of Viewers,” TV by the Numbers,
March 23, 2011, http://tvbythenumbers.zap2it.com
/2011/03/23/dvr-penetration-grows-to-39-7-of
-households-42-2-of-viewers/86819/, accessed May 11,
2011; Joseph Plambeck, “Product Placement Grows
in Music Videos,” The New York Times, July 5, 2010,
http://www.nytimes.com/2010/07/06/business/media
/06adco.html?_r=1, accessed June 21, 2012; Bill
Carter and Brian Stelter, “DVRs and Streaming
Prompt a Shift in the Top-Rated TV Shows,” The
New York Times, March 4, 2012, http://www.nytimes
.com/2012/03/05/business/media/dvrs-and-streaming
-prompt-a-shift-in-the-top-rated-tv-shows.html?
pagewanted=all, accessed June 21, 2012.
24. Susan Gunelius, “Ford, Coke & AT&T Pay
More to Sponsor American Idol,” Bizzia, January 18,
2008, http://www.bizzia.com/brandcurve/ford-coke
-att-pay-more-to-sponsor-american-idol/, accessed
March 4, 2009; Amy Johannes, “Global Paid
Product Placement to Reach $7.6 billion by 2010:
Report,” PromoMagazine, August 17, 2006, http://
promomagazine.com/research/paidplacementreport/,
accessed June 16, 2010.
25. Angela Moscaritolo, “Number of U.S. Video
Game Players Falls,” PC Magazine, September 5,
2012, http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,240
9313,00.asp, accessed March 20, 2013; “Advertisers support games through new placements like
branded virtual goods and opt-in videos,”, eMarketer, December 12, 2012, http://www.emarketer.
com/Article/US-Gamers-Race-Mobile/1009543,
accessed March 20, 2013; “Massive Summary
Research—Significant Findings,” Massive, http://
www.massiv-eincorporated.com/casestudiesa.html,
accessed March 4, 2009; Nick Gonzalez, “Google to
Buy Adscape,” TechCrunch, February 16, 2007,
http://www.techcrunch.com/2007/02/16/google
-to-buy-adscape-for-23-million/, accessed March 5,
2009; “IN-game Advertising Is a Massive Market,”
The Telegraph, May 15, 2011, http://www.telegraph
.co.uk/technology/news/5312188/In-game-advertising
-is-a-massive-market.html, accessed May 16, 2011;
Mike Shields, “Report: Video Game Ads to Reach
$1 Bil. by 2012,” AdWeek, March 4, 2008, http://
www.adweek.com/news/television/report-video
-game-ads-reach-1-bil-2012-95119, accessed June 21,
2012; “Let the Games Begin Advertising!,” eMarketer, April 6, 2007, http://www.emarketer.com
/Article.aspx?1004739&R=1004739, accessed June 21,
2012.

26. “Snap to It; Snapchat’s Future,” The Economist,
February 4, 2017, https://www.highbeam.com/doc
/1G1-479741711.html, accessed April 30, 2017;
Lauren Johnson, “Taco Bell’s Cinco de Mayo
Snapchat Lens Was Viewed 224 Million Times,”
AdWeek, May 11, 2016, http://www.adweek.com
/digital/taco-bells-cinco-de-mayo-snapchat-lens
-was-viewed-224-million-times-171390/, accessed
April 30, 2017.
27. Lisa Evans, “Fitness First—Wait Watching,”
The Cool Hunter, March 17, 2009, http://www
. thecoolhunter.co.uk/article/detail/1504/fitness
-first-wait-watching, accessed March 30, 2013;
“UNICEF Finland: Mom,” March 31, 2009, I
Believe in Advertising, http://www.ibelieveinadv
.com/2009/03/unicef-finland-mom/, accessed March
30, 2013; Melanie Wells, “Kid Nabbing,” Forbes,
February 2, 2004, http://www.forbes.com/free
_forbes/2004/0202/084.html; Tremor, http://tremor.
com/index.html, accessed March 5, 2009; Elaine
Wong, “General Mills, Kraft Launch Word of
Mouth Networks,” BrandWeek, October 5, 2008,
http://www.brandweek.com/bw/content
_display/news-and-features/packaged-goods
/e3i2db03fb29d573ec52722456845f5c274, accessed
March 5, 2009; “The World’s Weird America: How
Some of Our Most Popular Products Are Seen
Overseas,” Pacific Standard, February 26, 2014,
https://psmag.com/the-world-s-weird-america-how
-some-of-our-most-popular-products-are-seen
-overseas-1d4a6b1732c0#.38jodwtwf, accessed
May 7, 2016.
28. Aaron Agius, “The 10 Best Social Media Marketing Campaigns of 2016 So Far,” Social Media
Today, July 28, 2016, http://www.socialmediatoday
.com/marketing/10-best-social-media-marketingcampaigns-2016-so-far, accessed April 30, 2017.
29. “Economic Uncertainty to Slow Sponsorship
Growth in 2012,” IEG, January 11, 2012, http://
www.sponsorship.com/About-IEG/Press-Room
/Economic-Uncertainty-To-Slow-Sponsorship
-Growth-In.aspx, accessed March 20, 2013; “Sponsorship Spending to Rise 2.2 Percent in 2009,”
press release, IEG, February 11, 2009, Sponsorship
.Com, http://www.sponsorship.com/About-IEG
/Press-Room/Sponsorship-Spending-To-Rise
-2.2-Percent-in-2009.aspx, accessed March 5, 2009;
“Sponsorship Spending to Rise 2.2 Percent in
2009,” Sommerville Baddley Marketing, August 28,
2009, http://www.sbmktg.net/2009/08/sponsorship
-spending-to-rise-22-percent-in-2009/, accessed
June 16, 2010; “Sponsorship Spending: 2010 Proves
Better Than Expected; Bigger Gains Set for 2011,”
press release, IEG, January 12, 2011, http://www
.prweb.com/releases/2011/01/prweb4958744.htm,
accessed May 15, 2011; “Economic Uncertainty to
Slow Sponsorship Growth in 2012,” IEG, January
11, 2012, http://www.sponsorship.com/About-IEG
.aspx, accessed June 22, 2012.
30. Shawn Paul Wood, “Emissions Scandal Took
the Air Out of Volkswagen Sales in November,”
AdWeek, December 2, 2015, http://www.adweek
.com/prnewser/emissions-scandal-took-the-air-out
-of-volkswagen-sales-in-november/119765, accessed
May 15, 2016.
31. Bill Stoller, “Publicity from Thin Air (Don’t
Just Wait for News to Happen),” ArticlesClick.com,
http://articlesclick.com/articles/public
-relations/publicity-from-thin-air.php, accessed
June 15, 2005.
32. “The Employment Situation—April 2011,” Bureau of Labor Statistics News Release, May 6, 2011,

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Bureau of Labor Statistics, http://www.bls.gov/news
.release/pdf/empsit.pdf, accessed May 16, 2011.
Pg. 222 Fact: Erik Qualman, “Social Media Video
2013,” Socialnomics, January 1, 2013, http://www
.socialnomics.net/2013/01/01/social-media-video
-2013/, accessed September 2014.

13
1. “Supermarket Facts, Industry Overview 2008,”
Food Marketing Institute, http://www.fmi.org/facts
_figs/?fuseaction=superfact, accessed June 30, 2010.
2. Sebastian Valencia, “Wholesale Distribution
Industry Outlook: Drones,” Clarkson Consulting,
August 27, 2014, http://clarkstonconsulting.com
/blog/wholesale-distribution-industry-outlook
-drones/, accessed April 27, 2015; Doug Gross,
“Amazon’s Drone Delivery: How Would It Work?,”
CNN, December 2, 2013, http://www.cnn.com
/2013/12/02/tech/innovation/amazon-drones
-questions/, accessed April 27, 2015; Hilary Brueck,
“Here’s How Amazon Is Fighting for U.S. Drone
Deliveries,” Fortune, March 21, 2016, http://
fortune.com/2016/03/21/amazon-drone-lobbying/,
accessed May 21, 2016.
3. Suzanne Kapner, “Brick-and-Mortar Stores
Are Shuttering at a Record Pace,” The Wall Street
Journal, April 21, 2017 https://www.wsj.com
/articles/brick-and-mortar-stores-are-shuttering-at
-a-record-pace-1492818818, accessed May 5, 2017;
Carleton English, “Weak Mall Traffic Spells Pain
for Abercrombie, American Eagle & L Brands,”
Real Money, April 20, 2016, http://realmoney.
thestreet.com/articles/04/20/2016/weak-mall-traffic
-spells-pain-abercrombie-american-eagle-l-brands,
accessed May 5, 2017.
4. “Apparel Drives US Retail Ecommerce Sales
Growth,” eMarketer, April 20, 2012, http://www
.emarketer.com/newsroom/index.php/apparel
-drives-retail-ecommerce-sales-growth/, accessed
February 17, 2014; Susanna Kim, “Walmart
Website Error Allowed Customers to Buy $600
Electronics for $8.85,” ABC News, November 6,
2013, http://abcnews.go.com/Business/walmartsuper-low-prices-website-glitch/story?id=20804317,
accessed February 26, 2014; “Healthy Growth for
Ecommerce as Retail Continues Shift to Web,”
eMarketer Newsletter, March 17, 2011, http://
www.emarketer.com/Article/Healthy-Growth
-Ecommerce-Retail-Continues-Shift-Web/1008284,
accessed April 6, 2013; Rachel Metz, “Report: Online retail could reach $156B in 2009,” by January
29, 2009, The Industry Standard, http://www
.thestandard.com/news/2009/01/29/report-online
-retail-could-reach-156b-2009, accessed March 13,
2009; Jeffrey Grau, “eMarketer revises e-commerce
forecast,” eMarketer, March 5, 2009, http://www
.emarketer.com/Article.aspx?id=1006948; Beth
Kowitt, “Inside the Secret World of Trader Joes,”
Fortune, August 23, 2010, http://money.cnn.
com/2010/08/20/news/companies/inside_trader_joes
_full_version.fortune/index.htm, accessed May
30, 2011; “Healthy Growth for Ecommerce as
Retail Continues Shift to Web,” eMarketer
Blog, March 17, 2011, http://www.emarketer.com
/Article.aspx?R=1008284, accessed May 30,
2011; http://mashable.com/2011/02/28 /forrester
-e-commerce/.
5. “Worldwide Retail Ecommerce Sales Will Reach
$1.915 Trillion This Year,” eMarketer, August 22,

2016, https://www.emarketer.com/Article
/Worldwide-Retail-Ecommerce-Sales-Will-Reach
-1915-Trillion-This-Year/1014369, accessed May
5, 2017.
6. Miranda Hobbs, “How Does Real-time Online
Support Boost Conversion Rates and Ensure a Purchase Sticks?,” iAdvize blog, April 16, 2015, http://
www.iadvize.com/blog/en/en-conversion-rate
-optimisation-live-chat/, accessed May 5, 2017;
Justyna Kraszewska, “Why Should I Set Up Chat
Greetings,” Live Chat, https://www.livechatinc.com
/kb/why-should-i-set-up-chat-greetings/, 7.
7. Khadeeja Safdar, “Victoria’s Secret Turns Its
Back on the Catalog,” The Wall Street Journal,
April 8, 2016, https://www.wsj.com/articles/victorias
-secret-turns-its-back-on-the-catalog-1460155651,
accessed May 5, 2017.
8. Christian Storm, “30 Bizarre Vending Machines
from Around the World,” Business Insider,
November 10, 2014, http://www.businessinsider
.com/most-unique-vending-machines-2014-11,
accessed April 27, 2015.
9. “Sales soften at Costco,” Retail Analysis,
IGD, March 4, 2009, http://www.igd.com
/analysis/channel/news_hub.asp?channelid
=1&channelitemid=9&ni dp=&nid=5616,
accessed March 13, 2009.
10. Ann Lukits, “How to Get College Students to
Eat Healthier,” January 13, 2017, https://www.wsj
.com/articles/how-to-get-college-students-to-eat
-healthier-1484324984, accessed May 6, 2017.
11. Loss Leader Strategy, Investopedia website (a
Forbes Digital Company), http://www.investopedia.
com/terms/l/lossleader.asp, accessed March 14,
2009; Al Norman, “Walmart Not Crying Over Spilt
Milk,” The Huffington Post, August 22, 2008, http://
www.huffingtonpost.com /al-norman/wal-mart-not
-crying-over_b_120684 .html, accessed March 14,
2009.
12. Rafi Mohammed, “The Problem with Price
Gouging Laws,” Harvard Business Review, July 23,
2013, https://hbr.org/2013/07/the-problem
-with-price-gouging-laws, accessed May 6, 2017;
Jeffrey Dorfman, “Price Gouging Laws Are
Good Politics But Bad Economics,” Forbes,
September 23, 2016, https://www.forbes.com
/sites/jeffreydorfman/2016/09/23/price-gouging
-laws-are-good-politics-but-bad-economics
/#2a5aebc264d3, accessed May 6, 2017.
13. Stephanie Clifford, “Shopper Alert: Price
May Drop for You Alone by Stephanie Clifford,”
The New York Times, August 9, 2012 http://www
.nytimes.com/2012/08/10/business/supermarkets
-try-customizing-prices-for-shoppers.html, accessed
May 6, 2017.
14. Ben Kunz, “How Apple Plays the Pricing
Game,” Bloomberg Businessweek, October, 6, 2010,
http://www.nbcnews.com/id/38980367/ns/business
-us_business/t/how-apple-plays-pricing-game
/#.UWInbjcwok9, accessed April 7, 2013.
15. Steven Greenhouse, “How Costco Became the
Anti Walmart,” The New York Times, July 17, 2005,
http://www.nytimes.com/2005/07/17/business
/yourmoney/17costco.html?adxnnl=1&pagewanted
=1&adxnnlx=1122004143-8Vfn2DFl 1MJfern
M1navLA; Matthew Boyle, “Why Costco Is So
Addictive,” CNNMoney, October 25, 2006,
http://money.cnn.com/magazines/fortune/fortune
_archive/2006/10/30/8391725/index.htm, accessed
March 14, 2009.
Pg. 242 Fact: Russian proverb.

14
1. Stephanie Vozza, “The Surprising First Jobs of
10 Famous CEOS,” Fast Company, http://www
.fastcompany.com/3027074/dialed/the-surprising
-first-jobs-of-10-famous-ceos#1, accessed May 1,
2015; “First Jobs of the Rich and Famous,” Parade,
http://www.parade.com/celebrity/slideshows
/flashback/stars-first-jobs.html#?slideindex=0,
accessed April 7, 2013; “The Importance of Being
Richard Branson, Leadership and Change,” Knowledge@Wharton, January 12, 2005, http://knowledge
.wharton.upenn.edu/article/1109.cfm; Jeffrey
Kluger, “Ambition: Why Some People Are Most
Likely to Succeed,” Time Magazine, November 14,
2005, pp. 48–59, http://www.time.com/time/archive
/preview/0,10987,1126746,00.html; “Jeff Bezos,”
Reference for Business, http://www
.referenceforbusiness.com/businesses/A-F/Bezos
-Jeff.html, accessed June 24, 2012; Matt
Melvin2011, “The Roller Coaster Ride of Mark
Zuckerberg,” Teen Ink, http://www.teenink.com
/nonfiction/academic/article/292887/The.., accessed
June 24, 2012; “Reagan Trail Days,” The Ronald
Reagan Trail, http://www.ronaldreagantrail.net
/Pages/ReaganTrail.php?city=2&page=Dixon,
accessed June 24, 2012; “Celebrities’ First Jobs,”
Oprah.com, http://www.oprah.com/entertainment
/Oprahs-Live-Newscast-and-Celebrities-First-Jobs,
accessed September 4, 2016; David Kushner, “Will
Virtual Reality Change Your Life?,” Rolling Stone,
May 23, 2016, http://www.rollingstone.com
/culture/features/will-virtual-reality-change-your
-life-20160523, accessed September 4, 2016.
2. Erika Anderson, “It Seemed Like a Good Idea at
the Time: 7 of the Worst Business Decisions Ever
Made,” Forbes, October 4, 2013, http://www
.forbes.com/sites/erikaandersen/2013/10/04
/it-seemed-like-a-good-idea-at-the-time-7-of-the
-worst-business-decisions-ever-made/, accessed
March 1, 2014; “The Worst Business Decisions of
All Time,” 24/7 The Wall Street Journal, October 4,
2013, http://247wallst.com/2012/10/17/the-worstbusiness-decisions-of-all-time/3/, accessed April 7,
2013; “Top Ten Bad Business Decisions,” Business
Excellence, October 10, 2010, http://www.bus-ex
.com/article/top-ten-bad-business-decisions,
accessed June 24, 2012; Peter Roesler, “8 of the
Biggest Business Mistakes in History,” Inc., April
20, 2015, http://www.inc.com/peter-roesler/8-of-the
-biggest-business-mistakes-in-history.html, accessed
June 1, 2016.
3. “The Importance of Being Richard Branson,”
Leadership and Change, Knowledge@Wharton,
January 12, 2005, http://knowledge.wharton.upenn
.edu/article/1109.cfm.
4. “Hot Topic, Inc. Reports Fourth Quarter EPS
Increases 19% to $0.32 Per Diluted Share; Provides
Guidance for the 1st Quarter of 2009,” News Blaze,
March 11, 2009, http://newsblaze.com/story
/2009031112554500001.pz/topstory.html, accessed
March 25, 2009.
5. Larry Page, “Motivate Your Staff,” How to Succeed in 2005, Business 2.0 magazine, December 1,
2004, http://money.cnn.com/magazines/business2
/business2_archive/2004/12/01/8192529/index.htm.
6. Steve Lohr, “A New Game at the Office: Many
Young Workers Accept Fewer Guarantees,” The
New York Times, December 5, 2005, http://select
.nytimes.com/gst/abstract.html?res=F00F12FE385
50C768CDDAB0994DD404482.

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

355

7. Jeremy Morgan, “Uber Was Right to Hustle,
but Here’s Where its Leadership Blew It,” Fortune,
March 22, 2017, http://fortune.com/2017/03/22/
uber-president-resigns-travis-kalanick/, accessed
May 14, 2017; Dinah Eng, “For Which Wich, Success Is in the Bag,” April 22, 2017, http://fortune
.com/2017/04/22/which-wich-sandwichesjeff-sinelli/, accessed May 14, 2017.
8. “Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work for 2017,”
Fortune, http://beta.fortune.com/best-companies/,
accessed May 13, 2017.
9. Ibid.
10. Ibid.
11. “Zuckerberg Claims ‘We Don’t Build Services
to Make Money,’” by Larry Magid, February 1,
2012, Forbes, http://www.forbes.com/sites
/larrymagid/2012/02/01/zuckerberg-claims-we-dont
-build-services-to-make-money/, accessed April 7,
2013; Venessa Wong, “This CEO Gives Every
Employee His Cell Number (Seriously),” Bloomberg Businessweek, October 22, 2012, http://www
.businessweek.com/articles/2012-10-22/this-ceo
-gives-every-employee-his-cell-number-seriously,
accessed April 7, 2013.
12. Darrell Rigby, “Don’t Get Hammered by
Management Fads,” The Wall Street Journal, May
21, 2001.
13. Catherine Rampell, “A Generation of
Slackers? Not So Much,” The New York
Times, May 28, 2011, http://www.nytimes.
com/2011/05/29/weekinreview/29graduates.html,
accessed June 29, 2011.
14. “The Cow in the Ditch: How Anne Mulcahy
rescued Xerox,” Special Section: Knowledge at
Wharton, November 16–29, 2005, http://knowledge
.wharton.upenn.edu/index.cfm?fa=viewArticle&id
=1318&specialId=41.
15. Amy Langfield, “Unused Vacation Days at 40year High,” CNBC, October 23, 2014, http://www
.cnbc.com/id/102110867, accessed May 4, 2015;
Tony Schwartz, “Relax! You’ll Be More Productive,”
The New York Times, February 9, 2013, http://www
.nytimes.com/2013/02/10/opinion/sunday/relax
-youll-be-more-productive .html?pagewanted=all&
_r=0, accessed April 8, 2013; Chris Morris, “The
Average American Throws Away 4 Vacation Days a
Year,” Fortune, November 17, 2015, http://fortune.
com/2015/11/17/vacation-paid-time-americans
-survey/, accessed June 5, 2016; Suyin Hayes, “Lack
of Sleep Costs U.S. About $411 Billion in Lost
Productivity, Study Finds,” Fortune, November
30, 2016, http://fortune.com/2016/11/30/sleepproductivity-rand-corp-411-billion/, accessed May
14, 2017; “The state of American vacation: How
vacation became a casualty of our work culture,”
Project: Time Off, http://www.projecttimeoff.com
/research/state-american-vacation-2016, accessed
May 14, 2017.

15
1. Cheryl Hall, “Southwest Airlines CEO Is
Defining Himself as a Leader—Without Bag Fees,”
DallasNews, April 19, 2010, http://www.dallasnews.
com/business/columnists/cheryl-hall/20100417
-Southwest-Airlines-CEO-is-defining-himself-5278.
ece, accessed April 8, 2013; Gary Kelly and Kate
McCann, “Southwest Airlines CEO on the Business
of Building Trust,” McCombs School of Business,
October 11, 2005, http://www.mccombs.utexas.edu

356

/news/pressreleases/lyceum05_kelly_wrap05.asp,
accessed July 2, 2010; “Southwest Airlines Reports
Fourth Quarter Profit and 37th Consecutive Year of
Profitability,” PRNewsWire, January 21, 2010, http://
www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/southwest
-airlines-reports-fourth-quarter-profit-and-37th
-consecutive-year-of-profitability-82241197.
html, accessed July 2, 2010; 1106 HR Magazine:
“Views from the Top,” SHRM, November 1, 2006,
http://www.shrm.org/Publications/hrmagazine
/EditorialContent/Pages/1106ceoex.aspx, accessed
July 5, 2011.
2. Anna Brown and Eileen Patten, “The Narrowing,
But Persistent, Gender Gap in Pay,” Fact Tank, Pew
Research Center, April 3, 2017, http://www
.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/04/03/gender
-pay-gap-facts/, accessed May 21, 2017.
3. “America’s Jobless Recovery. Not Again,”
Economist, June 3, 2011, http://www.economist
.com/blogs/freeexchange/2011/06/americas-joblessrecovery, accessed July 5, 2011; Steve Lohr, “A
New Game at the Office: Many Young Workers
Accept Fewer Guarantees,” The New York Times,
December 5, 2005, http://select.nytimes.com/gst
/abstract.html?res=F00F12FE38550C768CDDAB
0994DD404482.
4. Kathryn Dill, “Report: CEOs Earn 331 Times as
Much as Average Workers, 774 Times as Much as
Minimum Wage Earners,” Forbes, April 15, 2014,
http://www.forbes.com/sites/kathryndill/2014/04/15
/report-ceos-earn-331-times-as-much-as-average
-workers-774-times-as-much-as-minimum-wage
-earners/, accessed Mary 10, 2015.
5. Jennifer Liberto, “CEO pay is 380 times average
worker’s—AFL-CIO,” CNNMoney, April 19, 2012,
http://money.cnn.com/2012/04/19/news/economy
/ceo-pay/index.htm, accessed April 9, 2013; Dionysus,
“CEO pay vs. performance—Still a roll of the dice,”
posted on Economatrix, April 1, 2010, http://www
.economatix.com/ceo-pay-vs-performance
-still-a-roll-of-the-dice-wsj, accessed September 6,
2011; Figure 3AE from Lawrence Mishel, Jared
Bernstein, and Heidi Shierholz, The State of
Working America 2009/2009: An Economic Policy
Institute Book (Ithaca, NY: ILR Press, An Imprint
of Cornell University Press, 2009), http://www
.stateofworkingamerica.org/tabfig/2008/03/SWA08
_Chapter3_Wages_r2_Fig-3AE.jpg, accessed
July 1, 2010; Pradnya Joshi, “We Knew They Got
Raises. But This?,” The New York Times, July 2,
2011, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/03
/business/03pay.html, accessed July 5, 2011;
Marla Dickerson, “U.S. CEO’s Pay 231 Times
Higher Than That of Average Workers,” Los
Angeles Times, May 2, 2012, http://articles.latimes
.com/2012/may/02/business/la-fi-mo-us-ceo-pay
-231times-more-than-average-workers-20120502,
accessed June 30, 2012; Scott Thurm, “CEO Pay
Moves with Corporate Results,” The Wall Street
Journal, May 23, 2012, http://online.wsj.com
/article/SB100014240527023040194045774162
10712022298.html, accessed July 2, 2012; Scott
Thrum, “‘Pay for Performance’ No Longer a
Punchline,” The Wall Street Journal, March 20,
2013, http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424127
887324373204578372444079319544, accessed
June 12, 2016; Paul Hodgson, “Top CEOs Make
More Than 300 Times the Average Worker,” Fortune,
June 22, 2015, http://fortune.com/2015/06/22/ceo
-vsworker-pay/, accessed June 12, 2016.
6. “In 2011 the Baby Boomers Start to Turn
65: 16 Statistics About the Coming Retirement

Crisis That Will Drop Your Jaw,” The American Dream, December 30, 2010, http://
endoftheamericandream.com/archives/in-2011the
-baby-boomers-start-to-turn-65-16-statisticsabout
-the-coming-retirement-crisis-thatwill-drop-your
-jaw, accessed July 5, 2011.
7. Steve greenhouse, “The Age Premium: Retaining Older Workers,” The New York Times, May 14,
2014, https://www.nytimes.com/2014/05/15/business
/retirementspecial/the-age-premium-retaining-older
-workers.html, accessed May 15, 2017.
8. “Facing Young Workers’ High Job Expectations,”
Los Angeles Times, June 27, 2005; Bruce Tulgan,
Not Everyone Gets a Trophy (San Francisco:
Jossey-Bass [Wiley imprint], 2009).
9. Betsy Morris, “How Corporate America Is Betraying Women,” Fortune, January 10, 2005; “Jane
Drain—Women Leaving Your Workforce,” Smart
Manager, http://www.smartmanager.com.au
/web/au/smartmanager/en/pages/89_jane_drain—
women_leaving_workforce.html, accessed July 5,
2011; Tiziana Barghini, “Educated Women Quit
Work as Spouses Earn More,” Reuters, March 8,
2012, http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/03/08
/us-economy-womenidUSBRE8270AC20120308,
accessed June 25, 2012; “Highly Achieved Women
Leaving the Traditional Workforce, Final Report
March 2008,” U.S. Department of Labor, http://
www.choose2lead.org/Publications/Are%20We
%20Losing%20the%20Best%20and%20the%20
Brightest.pdf, accessed June 25, 2012.
10. Featured Employee Rap Sheet, Hot Topic,
http://www.hottopic.com/community/rapsheets
/emp_jodi.asp?LS=0&, accessed April 11, 2006;
Steve Lohr, “A New Game at the Office: Many
Young Workers Accept Fewer Guarantees,”
The New York Times, December 5, 2005, http://
select.nytimes.com/gst/abstract.html?res
=F00F12FE38550C768CDDAB0994DD404482;
Andrea Shim, “Work-life Benefits Fall Victim to
Sloweconomy,” Los Angeles Times, April 4, 2009,
http://www.latimes.com/business/la-fi
-flexible42009apr04,0,4344887.story, accessed
April 4, 2009; Sue Shellenbarger, “Pending Job
Flexibility Act Received Mixed Reviews,” WSJ
Career Journal, http://www.careerjournal.com
/columnists/workfamily/20010426-workfamily
.html, accessed August 9, 2005.
11. Keith W. Hammonds, “Why We Hate HR,”
Fast Company, December 19, 2007, http://
www.fastcompany.com/magazine/97/open
_hr.html?page=0%2C1, accessed April 4, 2009.
12. Mary Beth Marklein, “One-third of Young
People Have a Bachelor’s,” USA Today, November 5,
2012, http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation
/2012/11/05/college-graduates-pew/1683899/,
accessed April 9, 2013; “Table 1. The 30 Fastest
Growing Occupations Covered in the 2008–2009
Occupational Outlook Handbook,” Economic news
release, Bureau of Labor Statistics, December 18,
2007, http://www.bls.gov/news.release/ooh.t01.
htm, accessed April 7, 2009; “Census Bureau Data
Underscore Value of College Degree,” U.S. Census
Bureau News, October 26, 2006, http://www.census
.gov/Press-Release/www/rel-eases/archives/education
/007660.html, accessed April 7, 2009; Derek
Quizon, “Increasing Share of Adults Have College
Degrees, Census Bureau Finds,” The Chronicle of
Higher Education, April 26, 2011, http://chronicle.
com/article/Increasing-Share-ofAdults/127264/,
accessed July 5, 2011.

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

13. “SHRM Human Capital Benchmarking
Study,” 2008 Executive Summary, page 14, SHRM,
http://www.shrm.org/Research/Documents
/2008%20Executive%20Summary_FINAL.pdf,
accessed April 7, 2009; “Effective Recruiting Tied
to Stronger Financial Performance,” news release,
Watson Wyatt Worldwide, August 16, 2005, http://
www.watsonwyatt.com/news/press.asp?ID=14959,
accessed April 7, 2009.
14. “CareerBuilder Releases Annual List of
Strangest Interview and Body Language Mistakes,”
CareerBuilder January 12, 2017, http://www
.careerbuilder.com/share/aboutus/pressreleasesdetail
.aspx?ed=12%2F31%2F2017&id=pr984&sd
=1%2F12%2F2017, accessed May 20, 2017; “Top
10 Unbelievable Interview Blunders,” CareerBuilder, http://employer.careerbuilder.com/jobposter
/small-business/article.aspx?articleid=ATL
_0174INTERVIEWBLUNDERS, accessed
May 20, 2017.
15. Jeanne Sahadi, “Top Five Resume Lies,” CNN
Money, December 9, 2004, http://money.cnn
.com/2004/11/22/pf/resume_lies/.
16. Elaine Pofeldt, “Source: Shocker: 40% of
Workers Now Have ‘Contingent’ Jobs, Says U.S.
Government,” May 25, 2015, https://www.forbes
.com/sites/elainepofeldt/2015/05/25/shocker-40-of
-workers-now-have-contingent-jobs-says-u-s
-government/, accessed May 20, 2017.
17. Ibid.
18. Matt DeLuca, “Orientation: Not Just a Onceover-Lightly Anymore,” HRO Today, April/May
2005, http://www.hrotoday.com/Magazine
.asp?artID=928; by Leslie Gross Klaff, “New Emphasis on First Impressions,” Workforce Management, March 2008, http://www.workforce.com
/archive/feature/25/41/58/index.php?ht=, accessed
April 7, 2009; Leon Rubis, “Show and Tell—Disney
Institute’s Four-Day Seminar on HR Management,”
HR magazine, April 1998; Daryl Stephenson, “New
Employee Experience Aims for Excitement Beyond
the First Day,” Boeing Frontiers Online, May 2002,
http://www.boeing.com/news/frontiers
/archive/2002/may/i_mams.html.
19. Sean McFadden, “Labor-Intensive,” Boston
Business Journal, November 19, 2004, http://www
.bizjournals.com/boston/stories/2004/11/22/smallb1
.html; Stanley Holmes and Wendy Zelner, “The
Costco Way; Higher Wages Mean Higher Profits.
But Try Telling Wall Street,” Business-Week,
April 12, 2004; Todd Raphael, “Study: Moderation
in Hiring Practices Boosts Business Performance,”
Workforce Management, August 19, 2005, http://
www.workforce.com/section/00/article/24/14/03
.html.
20. Carroll Lachnit, “Appreciating Benefits as
Times Gets Tough,” Blog: The Business of
Management, Workforce Management,
March 24, 2009, http://www.workforce.com
/article/20090324/BLOGS02/303249999
/appreciatingbenefits-as-times-gets-tough,
accessed April 9, 2009.
21. John Simons, “IBM, a Pioneer of Remote
Work, Calls Workers Back to the Office,” The Wall
Street Journal, May 18, 2017, https://www.wsj
.com/articles/ibm-a-pioneer-of-remote-work-calls
-workers-back-to-the-office-1495108802, accessed
May 21, 2017.
22. Sue Shellenbarger, “Perking Up: Some Companies Offer Surprising New Benefits,” The Wall
Street Journal, March 18, 2009, http://online.wsj

.com/article/SB123733195850463165.html,
accessed April 9, 2009.

statistics/enforcement/sexual_harassment_new.cfm,
accessed June 12, 2016.

23. “Questions and Answers About Flexible Work
Schedules: A Sloan Work and Family Research
Network Fact Sheet,” Sloan Work and Family
Research Network, updated September 2008,
http://wfnetwork.bc.edu/pdfs/flexworksched.pdf,
accessed April 9, 2009; Andrea Shim, “Work-life
Benefits Fall Victim to Slow Economy,” Los Angeles
Times, April 4, 2009, http://www.latimes.com
/business/la-fi-flexible4-2009apr04,0,4344887.story,
accessed April 4, 2009.

29. Sexual Harassment,” US Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission, updated March 11, 2009,
http://www.eeoc.gov/types/sexual_harassment.html,
accessed April 10, 2009.

24. Kenneth Rapoza, “One in Five Americans
Work from Home, Numbers Seen Rising Over
60%,” Forbes, February 18, 2013, http://www.
forbes.com/sites/kenrapoza/2013/02/18/oneinfive-americans-work-from-home-numbersseenrising-over-60/, accessed March 30, 2014; Rick
Hampson, “The Work-from-home Tug of War,”
USA Today, March 11, 2013, http://www.usatoday
.com/story/news/nation/2013/03/11/the-work
-from-home-tug-ofwar/1979457/, accessed March
30, 2014; “Global Workplace Analytics and the
Telework Research Network,” Telework Research
Network, http://www.teleworkresearchnetwork
.com/pros-cons, accessed April 10, 2013; Mary C.
Noonan and Jennifer L. Glass, “The Hard truth
About Telecommuting,” Monthly Labor Review,
June 2012, http://www.bls.gov/opub/mlr/2012/06
/art3full.pdf, accessed April 10, 2013; Ted Samson,
“Give telecommuting the green light,” InfoWorld,
June 7, 2007, http://www.infoworld.com/d/green
-it/givetelecommuting-green-light-628, accessed
April 10, 2009; Brendan I. Koerner, “Home
Sweet Office: Telecommute Good for Business,
Employees, and Planet,” Wired, September 22,
2008, http://www.wired.com/culture/culturereviews
/magazine/16-10/st_essay, accessed April 10,
2009; Ginger Christ, “Skype: More Companies
Allow Telecommuting,” Dayton Business Journal,
April 5, 2011, http://www.bizjournals.com
/dayton/news/2011/04/05/more-companies
-allowtelecommuting.html, accessed July 5, 2011;
“Costs and Benefits, Advantages of Telecommuting
for Companies,” Telework Research Network,
http://www.teleworkresearchnetwork.com
/costsbenefits, accessed July 5, 2011.
25. Michelle V. Rafter, “The New Job Sharers,”
Workforce Management, May 2008, http://www
.workforce.com/archive/feature/25/53/28/index.php,
accessed April 10, 2009; Stephen Miller, “Study
Attempts to Dispel Five Myths of Job Sharing,”
Society for Human Resource Management, May
9, 2007, http://moss07.shrm.org/Publications
/HRNews/Pages/XMS_021497.aspx, accessed
April 10, 2009.
26. Jacquelyn Smith, “Here’s What Hiring Managers
REALLY Think of Your Tattoos,” Business Insider,
January 5, 2016, http://www.businessinsider.com/what
-hiring-managers-really-think-of-yourtattoos-2016-1,
accessed June 12, 2016.
27. Rex Nutting, “5.1 million jobs lost in this recession so far,” MarketWatch, April 3, 2009, http://
www.marketwatch.com/news/story/51-million
-jobs-lost-recession/story. aspx?guid={CF54164C
-6F7B-4501-B6FB-D7D1C8D710B9}&dist=msr_8,
accessed April 10, 2009; “Boost Employee Morale
After Layoffs,” Workforce Management, http://
www.workforce.com/archive/article/22/14/10.php,
accessed April 10, 2009.
28. “Charges Alleging Sexual Harassment FY
2010–FY 2015,” EEOC, https://www.eeoc.gov/eeoc/

Pg. 266 Fact: Kate Taylor, “Why Millennials
Are Ending The 9 To 5,” Forbes, August 23,
2013, http://www.forbes.com/sites/katetaylor/2013/08/23/why-millennials-are-ending-the9-to5/#256850533d75, accessed September 4, 2016.
Pg. 267 Fact: “Frivolous Lawsuits,” America’s Best,
April 2008, http://www.americasbestcompanies
.com/magazine/articles/frivolous-lawsuits.aspx,
accessed November 27, 2012.
Pg. 270 Fact: Walter Hamilton, “Few Firms
Recruiting Liberal Arts Majors,” Los Angeles
Times, May 21, 2014, http://www.latimes.com
/business/la-fi-companies-hiring-liberal-arts-majors
-jobs20140521-story.html, accessed May 10, 2015.
Pg. 278 Fact: “Occupational Safety and Health
Administration Statistics,” Occupational Safety
and Health Administration, https://www.osha.gov
/oshstats/commonstats.html, accessed September
2014.

16
1. John Markoff, “The iPad in Your Hand: As
Fast as a Supercomputer of Yore,” The New York
Times, May 9, 2011, http://bits.blogs.nytimes.
com/2011/05/09/the-ipad-in-your-hand-as-fast-as-a
-supercomputer-of-yore/, accessed April 2, 2013; S.
Caldwell, “An Apple Pencil-Drawn Review of the
Apple Pencil,” iMore, March 7, 2016, http://www
.imore.com/review-apple-pencil-drawn-review
-apple-pencil, accessed April 1, 2016; R. Smith,
“More on Apple’s A9X SoC: 47mm2@TSMC, 12
GPU Cores, No L3 Cache,” Anandtech, November
30, 2015, http://www.anandtech.com/show/9824
/more-on-apples-a9x-soc, accessed April 1, 2016.
2. J. Paparrizos, R. White, and E. Horvitz, “Screening for Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma Using Signals
From Web Search Logs: Feasibility Study and
Results,” Journal of Oncology Practice 12, no. 8
(2016): 737–744.
3. J. Markoff, “Microsoft Finds Cancer Clues in
Search Queries,” The New York Times, June 7,
2016, https://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/08
/technology/online-searches-can-identify-cancer
-victims-study-finds.html?_r=0, accessed
February 11, 2017.
4. “2016 Global Internet Phenomena: Latin
America & North American,” Sandvine Intelligent
Broadband Networks, June 2016, https://www
.sandvine.com/downloads/general/global-internet
-phenomena/2016/global-internet-phenomena
-report-latin-america-and-north-america.pdf,
accessed February 11, 2017.
5. “The Size of the World Wide Web (The Internet),” WorldWideWebSize, February 11, 2017,
http://ww.worldwidewebsize.com/, accessed
February 11, 2017.
6. J. Horrigan and M. Duggan, “Home Broadband 2015,” Pew Research Center, December
21, 2015, http://www.pewinternet.org/2015/12/21/
home-broadband-2015/, accessed April 1, 2016;
“Demographics of Internet and Home Broadband
Usage in the United States,” Pew Research Center,
January 12, 2017, http://www.pewinternet.org/

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

357

fact-sheet/internet-broadband/, accessed February
11, 2017.
7. “Demographics of Mobile Device Ownership
and Adoption in the United States,” Pew Research
Center, January 12, 2017, http://www.pewinternet
.org/fact-sheet/mobile/, accessed February 11, 2017.
8. Ibid.
9. “About Us, The Internet2 Community:
Enabling the Future,” Internet2, May 2016, http://
www.internet2.edu/about-us/, accessed February
11, 2017.
10. Ibid.
11. E. Boyd, “Internet2 Technology Update,”
Internet 2, January 21, 2008, https://www.internet2
.edu/presentations/jt2008jan/20080121-boyd.ppt,
accessed February 11, 2017.
12. J. Cox, “The Rise of ‘Have I Been Pwned?’,” an
Invaluable Resource in the Hacking Age,” Motherboard, March 10, 2016, https://motherboard.vice
.com/en_us/article/the-rise-of-have-i-been-pwned
-an-invaluable-resource-in-the-hacking-age-troy
-hunt, accessed February 13, 2017; T. Hunt, “Have
I been pwned?” FAQs, https://haveibeenpwned.
com/FAQs, accessed February 13, 2017; K. Rogers,
“If Mark Zuckerberg Can Be Hacked on Twitter,
So Can You,” The New York Times, June 6, 2016,
https://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/07/technology/if
-mark-zuckerberg-can-be-a-hacking-victim-so-can
-you.html, accessed February 13, 2017.
13. S. Rosenbush, “Cloud Adoption Among
Large Companies Set to Accelerate, McKinsey
Studies Find—CIO Journal,” The Wall Street
Journal, September 15, 2016, http://blogs.wsj.com
/cio/2016/09/15/cloud-adoption-among-large
-companies-set-to-accelerate-mckinsey-studies
-find/, accessed February 12, 2017.
14. J. Anders, “Amazon’s Andy Jassy on the
Promise of the Cloud,” The Wall Street Journal,
October 30, 2016, https://www.wsj.com/articles
/amazons-andy-jassy-on-the-promise-of-the
-cloud-1477880220, accessed February 12, 2017.
15. J. Greene, “Amazon to Offer Cloud-Migration
Service,” The Wall Street Journal, March 15, 2016,
p. B4.
16. S. Ovide and C. Boulton, “Flood of Rivals
Could Burst Amazon’s Cloud,” The Wall Street
Journal, July 26, 2014, p. B4.
17. E. Rusli, “Next in Tech: Research Labs Jump
to Cloud–Startups Use Software, Robots to Slash
Costs for Basic Experiments,” The Wall Street
Journal, July 1, 2014, B4.
18. T. Sultana, “Big Data Is Driving Safety
on Freight Railroads,” RealClearTechnology,
January 27, 2016, http://www.realcleartechnology
.com/articles/2016/01/27/big_data_is_driving
_safety_on_freight_railroads_1271.html, accessed
February 12, 2017.
19. Q. Hardy, “As a Data Deluge Grows, Companies
Rethink Storage,” The New York Times, March 14,
2016, https://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/15/technology
/as-a-data-deluge-grows-companies-rethink-storage
.html?_r=0, accessed February 12, 2017.
20. Ibid.
21. N. Singer, “Bring Big Data to the Fight Against
Benefits Fraud,” The New York Times, February 20,
2015, http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/22
/technology/bringing-big-data-to-the-fight-against
-benefits-fraud.html, accessed April 15, 2015.
22. L. Lagnado, “Doctors Test Tools to Predict
Your Odds of a Disease,” The Wall Street Journal,

358

May 30, 2016, https://www.wsj.com/articles
/doctors-test-tools-to-predict-your-odds-of-a
-disease-1464633980, accessed February 12,
2017.
23. Effy Oz, Management Information Systems, 5th
ed., Course Technology (Stamford, CT: Cengage
Learning, 2006), pp. 332–338; Jack Copeland,
“What Is Artificial Intelligence,” AlanTuring.Net,
May 2000, http://www.cs.usfca.edu/www.AlanTuring
.net/turing_archive/pages/Reference%20Articles
/what_is_AI/What%20is%20AI07.html.
24. David M. Kroenke, Experiencing MIS (Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall,
2008): 340–341; “What Are Expert Systems?,”
Thinkquest.org, http://library.thinkquest.org/11534
/expert.htm, accessed May 24, 2009.
25. D. Nations, “What Is Enterprise 2.0? Enterprise 2.0 Explained,” About Tech, http://webtrends
.about .com/od/office20/a/enterprise-20.htm,
accessed April 16, 2015; D. Nation, “What Is Web
2.0—How Web 2.0 Is Defining Society,” About
Tech, http://webtrends.about.com/od/web20/a
/what-is-web20.htm, accessed April 16, 2015.
26. IAB Internet Advertising Revenue Report:
2016 First Sixth Months Results, PricewaterhouseCooper, November 1, 2016, http://www.iab
.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/IAB_Internet
_Advertising_Revenue_Report_HY_2016___.pdf,
accessed February 12, 2017.
27. A. Andriotis and P. Rudegeair, “Credit-Card
Fraud Keeps Rising, Despite New Security Chips,”
The Wall Street Journal, February 1, 2017, https://
www.wsj.com/articles/credit-card-fraud-keeps
-rising-despite-new-security-chipsstudy
-1485954000, accessed February 14, 2017; R.
Holmes, “Hootsuite’s CEO on What He Learned
from Getting Hacked on Social Media,” Harvard
Business Review, October 6, 2016, https://hbr
.org/2016/10/hootsuites-ceo-on-what-he-learned
-from-getting-hacked-on-social-media, accessed
February 14, 2017.
28. “Q4 2016 Fact Sheet,” PayPal.com, https://
www.paypalobjects.com/digitalassets/c/website
/marketing/global/shared/global/media-resources
/documents/paypal-fastfacts-q4-and-fy-final.pdf,
accessed February 12, 2017.
29. “Disney Bets Big on Visitor-Tracking Technology,” Bloomberg Businessweek /MSN Money,
March 10, 2014, http://money.msn.com/technology
-investment/post--disney-bets-big-on-visitor-tracking
-technology, accessed March 31, 2014.
30. Apple Mac Owners Held to Ransom by
KeRanger Malware, The Telegraph, March 7, 2016;
Why Ransomware Is on the Rise, by J. O’Connell,
Phys.org, February 25, 2016; “Ransomware” a
Growing Threat to Small Businesses, by R. Simon,
The Wall Street Journal, April 15, 2015, http://www
.wsj.com/articles/ransomware-a-growing-threat
-to-small-businesses-1429127403, accessed April 2,
2016; How My Mom Got Hacked, by A. Simone,
The New York Times, January 2, 2015, http://www
.nytimes.com/2015/01/04/opinion/sunday/how-my
-mom-got-hacked.html?_r=0, accessed April 2, 2016.
31. D. Gudkova, M. Vergelis, and N. Demidova,
“Spam and phishing in Q3 2016,” Securelist,
https://securelist.com/analysis/quarterly-spam
-reports/76570/spam-and-phishing-in-q3-2016/,
accessed February 13, 2017.
32. C. Metz, “Google Says Its AI Catches 99.9
Percent of Gmail Spam,” Wired, July 9, 2015,
https://www.wired.com/2015/07/google-says-ai

-catches-99-9-percent-gmail-spam/, accessed
February 13, 2017.
33. M. Maunder, “Wide Impact: Highly Effective
Gmail Phishing Technique Being Exploited,” Wordfence, January 12, 2017, https://www.wordfence
.com/blog/2017/01/gmail-phishing-data-uri
/#officialupdate, accessed February 13, 2017.
34. J. Condliffe, “The 25 Most Popular Passwords
of 2015: We’re All Such Idiots,” Gizmodo, January
22, 2016, http://gizmodo.com/the-25-most-popular
-passwords-of-2015-were-all-such-id-1753591514,
accessed April 2, 2016; L. Graham, “MasterCard
to Replace Passwords with Selfies,” CNBC,
February 24, 2016, http://www.cnbc.com/2016/02
/24/mastercard-to-replace-passwords-with-selfies
.html, accessed April 2, 2016; J. Lonsdale, “Email
Without Passwords: How Yahoo Account Key Works,”
Men’s Journal via Yahoo! News, October 16, 2015,
https://www.yahoo.com/news/email-without
-passwords-yahoo-account-200000867.html,
accessed April 2, 2016; R. Williams, “Yahoo Mail
Does Away with Passwords,” Telegraph, October
16, 2015, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology
/news /11935393/Yahoo-Mail-does-away-with
-passwords.html, accessed April 2, 2016.
35. “Pharming: Is Your Trusted Website a Clever
Fake?” Microsoft, January 3, 2007, http://www
.microsoft.com/protect/yourself/phishing /pharming
.mspx; “Online Fraud: Pharming,” Symantic, http://
www.symantec.com/norton/cybercrime/pharming
.jsp, accessed May 24, 2009; “Advisory: Watch
Out for Drive-by-Pharming Attacks,” Pharming.
org, http://www .pharming.org/index.jsp, accessed
May 24, 2009.
36. M. Huffman, “‘Smishing’ Emerges as New
Threat to Cell Phone Users,” Consumer Affairs,
http://www.consumeraffairs.com/news04/2006/11
/smishing.html, accessed May 22, 2009; E. Millis,
“‘SMiShing’ Fishes for Personal Data Over Cell
Phone,” CNet, February 24, 2009, http://news
.cnet.com/8301-1009_3-10171241-83.html,
accessed April 2, 2013; L. Musthaler, “How to
Avoid Becoming a Victim of SMiShing (SMS phishing),” NetworkWorld, March 7, 2013, http://www
.networkworld.com/newsletters/techexec/2013/0308
13bestpractices.html, accessed April 2, 2013.
37. “Create Strong Passwords,” Microsoft Safety &
Security Center, http://www.microsoft.com/security
/online-privacy/passwords-create.aspx, accessed
April 2, 2013.
38. T. Simonite, “You’ve Been Misled About What
Makes a Good Password,” MIT Technology Review,
October 19, 2015, https://www.technologyreview
.com/s/542576/youve-been-misled-about-what
-makes-a-good-password/, accessed February 13,
2017.
39. R. Myers, “The Best Password Manager (and
Why You Need One): 1Password,” September 12,
2016, http://thesweetsetup.com/apps/best-password
-manager-and-why-you-need-one/, accessed
February 13, 2017.
40. West Brother, “Editorial: The Trolley Problem,”
East-West Brothers Garage, October 24, 2016,
http://www.eastwestbrothersgarage.com/2016/10
/editorial-trolley-problem.html, accessed
February 14, 2017; D. Morris, “Mercedes’ SelfDriving Cars Will Save Passengers, Not Bystanders,” Fortune, October 15, 2016, http://fortune.
com/2016/10/15/mercedes-self-driving-car-ethics
/, accessed February 14, 2017; F. Pasquale, “Get
Off the Trolley Problem: Self-driving cars shouldn’t

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

have to choose who to protect in a crash,” Slate,
October 18, 2016, http://www.slate.com/articles
/technology/future_tense/2016/10/self_driving_cars
_shouldn_t_have_to_choose_who_to_protect_in_a
_crash.html, accessed February 14, 2017; M.
Taylor, “Self-Driving Mercedes-Benzes Will
Prioritize Occupant Safety over Pedestrians,” Car
and Driver Blog, October 7, 2016, http://blog.
caranddriver.com/self-driving-mercedes-will
-prioritize-occupant-safety-over-pedestrians/,
accessed February 14, 2017.
41. W. Oremus, “The Skimming Scam,” Slate,
August 25, 2015, http://www.slate.com/articles/life
/travel_explainer/2015/08/credit_cards_passports
_and_rfid_fraud_are_special_blocking_wallets
_necessary.html, accessed February 13, 2017.

/as-energy-use-rises-corporations-turn-to-their
-own-green-utility-sources.html?_r=0, accessed
February 15, 2017.
7. S. Chaudhuri, “IKEA Gets Deeper Into the
Woods,” The Wall Street Journal, July 31, 2015,
B6; J. Hansegard, “IKEA Slides Into Cramped
Quarters,” The Wall Street Journal, October 1,
2015, p. B1; B. Kowitt, “How Ikea Took Over the
World,” Fortune, March 10, 2015, http://fortune.
com/ikea-world-domination/, accessed February
18, 2017; O. Roeder, “The Weird Economics of
Ikea,” FiveThirtyEight, October 21, 2016, https://
fivethirtyeight.com/features/the-weird-economicsof-ikea/, accessed February 18, 2017.

42. Ibid.

8. “Activate Pre-Owned Vehicle,” OnSta, https://
www.onstar.com/us/en/get-onstar/pre-owned.html,
accessed April 3, 2016.

43. “Seizing Opportunity Through License Compliance: BSA Global Software Survey,” BSA: The
Software Alliance, May 2016, http://globalstudy.bsa
.org/2016/downloads/studies/BSA_GSS
_US.pdf#page=5, accessed February 13, 2017.

9. “Boeing: Services—Training & Resourcing,
Boeing,” February 16, 2017, http://www.boeing
.com/commercial/services/flight-operations
-solutions/training-and-resourcing/, accessed
February 16, 2017.

44. J. F. Gantz, A. Florean, R. Lee, V. Lim,
B. Sikdar, et al., “The Link Between Pirated Software and Cybersecurity Breaches: How Malware
in Pirated Software Is Costing the World Billions,”
National University of Singapore and IDC, March
2014, http://news.microsoft.com/download/
presskits/dcu/docs/idc_031814.pdf, accessed
April 16, 2015.

10. D. Collier and J. Evans, OM, 2nd ed. (Mason,
OH: South-Western, Cengage Learning, 2010): 27–28.

45. Ibid.

17
1. H. Martin, “Here’s What Happens on the
Airplane before You Board your Flight,” The Los
Angeles Times, December 26, 2016, http://www
.latimes.com/business/la-fi-airline-turn-around
-20161226-story.html, accessed February 15,
2017.
2. M. Perry, “Technology Has Advanced So Rapidly
That a Laptop Computer Today Is 96% Cheaper
than a 1994 Model and 1,000x Better,” AE ideas,
May 25, 2016, http://www.aei.org/publication
/technology-has-advanced-so-rapidly-that-a-laptop
-computer-today-is-96-cheaper-than-a-1994-model
-and-1000x-better/, accessed February 15, 2017.
3. “Establishment DataEmployment-Table B-1a.
Employees on Nonfarm Payrolls by Industry Sector
and Selected Industry Detail, Seasonally Adjusted,”
Current Employment Statistics—CES (National):
Bureau of Labor Statistics, February 3, 2017,
https://www.bls.gov/web/empsit/ceseeb1a.htm,
accessed February 15, 2017.
4. Starbucks’ Secret Menu—The Drinks You
Didn’t Know You Can Ask For,” The Telegraph,
February 15, 2017, http://www.telegraph.co.uk
/finance/picture-galleries/11375182/Revealed-The
-drinks-you-didnt-know-you-could-order-at-Starbucks.html, accessed February 15, 2017.
5. J. Beck, “Starbucks Orders and the Mass
Customization of American Food,” The Atlantic,
May 13, 2016, https://www.theatlantic.com
/health/archive/2016/05/food-customization-america
/482073/, accessed February 15, 2017.
6. D. Cardwell, “Apple Becomes a Green Energy
Supplier, With Itself as Customer,” The New York
Times, August 23, 2016, https://www.nytimes.
com/2016/08/24/business/energy-environment

11. D. Berman, “Where Netﬂix Sees Potential—
and Risks,” The Wall Street Journal, October 31,
2016, R4.
12. E. Humes, “Your iPhone’s 500,000-Mile
Journey to Your Pocket,” Wired, April 12,
2016, https://www.wired.com/2016/04/iphones
-500000-mile-journey-pocket/, accessed February
16, 2017.
13. “Outsourcing: Ripoff Nation,” BW Smallbiz
Front Line, Winter 2006, BusinessWeek, http://
www.businessweek.com/magazine/content/06_52
/b4015435.htm?chan=rss_topStories_ssi_5; Steve
Dickinson, “Outsourcing in China: Five Basic Rules
for Reducing Risk,” Ezine Articles, http://ezinearticles
.com/?Outsourcing-in-China:-Five-Basics-for
-Reducing-Risk&id=17214.
14. David Stodder, “ERP and Cloud Computing:
Delivering a Virtual Feast,” Information Week,
May 20, 2010, http://www.informationweek.com
/news/software/bi/224701329, accessed December
6, 2011.
15. M. Bitner, “Servicescapes: The Impact of
Physical Surroundings on Customers and Employees, Journal of Marketing, April 1992: 57–71.
16. “Taco Bell New Urban Restaurant Concept
Redefines Fast Food Experience,” pres release,
Taco Bell, September 15, 2015, https://www
.tacobell.com/news/taco-bell-new-urban-restaurant
-concept-redefines-fast-food-experience, accessed
February 17, 2017; J. Jargon, “Taco Bell to Open
Upscale ‘Cantina’ Restaurants,” The Wall Street
Journal, September 15, 2015, https://www.wsj.com
/articles/taco-bell-to-open-upscale-cantina-restaurants
-1442330973, accessed February 17, 2017.
17. A. Khouri, “Chalupas and Beer? Taco Bell to
Serve Alcohol at New Cantina Restaurants,” The
Los Angeles Times, September 15, 2015, http://
www.latimes.com/business/la-fi-taco-bell-cantinas
-20150915-story.html, accessed February 16, 2017.
18. J. Wakefield, “Foxconn Replaces ‘60,000 Factory Workers with Robots,’” BBC News, May 25,
2016, http://www.bbc.com/news/technology
-36376966, accessed February 17, 2017.
19. T. Chen, “In China, a Robot’s Place Is in the
Kitchen,” The Wall Street Journal, July 24, 2016,
https://www.wsj.com/articles/in-china-a-robots

-place-is-in-the-kitchen-1469393604, accessed
February 17, 2017.
20. O. Zaleski, “Inside Silicon Valley’s Robot
Pizzeria,” Bloomberg, June 24, 2016, https://www
.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-06-24/inside
-silicon-valley-s-robot-pizzeria, accessed
February 17, 2017.
21. G. Fowler, “Robot Baristas Serve Up the Future of Coffee at Cafe X,” The Wall Street Journal,
January 30, 2017, https://www.wsj.com/articles
/robot-baristas-serve-up-the-future-of-coffee
-at-cafe-x-1485781201, accessed February 17,
2017.
22. Associated Press, “Robot Revolution
Sweeping Chinese Factory Floors,” CBS News,
September 23, 2015, http://www.cbsnews.com/
news/robot-revolution-sweeping-chinese-factory
-floors/, accessed February 17, 2017.
23. J. Wakefield, “Foxconn Replaces ‘60,000 Factory Workers with Robots,’” BBC News, May 25,
2016, http://www.bbc.com/news/technology
-36376966, accessed February 17, 2017.
24. “Mine of the FutureTM” Rio Tinto, 2014,
http://www.riotinto.com/documents/Mine_of_The
_Future_Brochure.pdf, accessed February 18,
2017; F. Els, “Rio’s Now Mining Iron Ore for
$14.30 a Tonne,” Mining, August 3, 2016, http://
www.mining.com/rios-now-mining-iron-ore-14-30
-tonne/, accessed February 18, 2017; Nick G., “Automation and Asteroids: How Rio Tinto is Changing
the Future of Mining—Technology and Operations Management,” Harvard Business School,
November 18, 2016, https://rctom.hbs.org
/submission/automation-and-asteroids-how-rio
-tinto-is-changing-the-future-of-mining/, accessed
February 18, 2017; T. Simonite, “Mining 24 Hours
a Day with Robots,” MIT Technology Review,
December 28, 2016, https://www.technologyreview
.com/s/603170/mining-24-hours-a-day-with-robots/,
accessed February 18, 2017; D. Stringer and R.
Keenan, “Creating the World’s Biggest Robots
Proves Challenging for Miners,” Bloomberg,
June 16, 2016, https://www.bloomberg.com/news
/articles/2016-06-17/world-s-biggest-robots-delay
-dims-zeal-to-automate-mine-trains, accessed
February 18, 2017.
25. S. McCartney, “Overhead Bins That Actually
Fit Bags,” The Wall Street Journal, October 14,
2015, https://www.wsj.com/articles/overhead
-bins-that-actually-fit-bags-1444840178, accessed
February 17, 2017.
26. S. Chaudhuri, “At IKEA, Ensuring ‘Quality as
an Enabler of Lower Cost’—Corporate Intelligence,” The Wall Street Journal, June 17, 2015,
http://blogs.wsj.com/corporate-intelligence/2015
/06/17/at-ikea-ensuring-quality-as-an-enabler-of
-lower-cost/, accessed February 17, 2017.
27. Ibid.
28. K, Simon, “How Mistake Proof Are Your Processes?” iSixSigma, https://www.isixsigma.com
/tools-templates/poka-yoke/how-mistake-proofare-your-processes/, accessed February 17, 2017;
M. Hendricks, “Make No Mistake,” Entrepreneur
magazine, October 1996, http://www.entrepreneur
.com/magazine/entrepreneur/1996/october/13430
.html, accessed February 17, 2017.
29. Steven Rosenbush and Laura Stevens, “At
UPS, the Algorithm Is the Driver—Turn Right,
Turn Left, Turn Right: Inside Orion, the 10-year
Effort to Squeeze Every Penny from Delivery
Routes,” The Wall Street Journal, February 17,

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

359

2015, pp. B1, B4; http://www.pressroom.ups
.com/Media+Kits /ORION; Alex Konrad, “Meet
ORION, Software That Will Save UPS Millions by
Improving Drivers’ Routes,” Forbes, November 1,
2013, http://www.forbes.com/sites/alexkonrad
/2013/11/01/meet-orion-software-that-will-save
-ups-millions-by-improving-drivers-routes
/?partner=yahootix, accessed February 27,
2015.
30. “Baldrige Award Process Fees,” Baldrige Performance Excellence Program, http://www.nist.gov
/baldrige/enter/award_fees.cfm, accessed February
17, 2017.
31. Drones Are Becoming the Oil Industry’s
Guardian Angels, HPE Matter, Summer 2015,
https://www.hpematter.com/issue-no-5-summer
-2015-idea-economy/drones-are-becoming-oil
-industrys-guardian-angels, accessed April 3,
2016; V. Addison, “Drones Take Flight in Oil,
Gas Sector,” Exploration & Production, March 6,
2015, http://www.epmag.com/drones-take-flight
-oil-gas-sector-785996, accessed April 3, 2016;
O. Solon, “Flying Robots Replace Oil Roughnecks,” Bloomberg, August 21, 2015; T. Woody,
“Drones Are Becoming Energy’s New Roustabouts,” The New York Times, April 21, 2014,
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/04/22/business
/energy-environment/drones-are-becoming
-energys-new-roustabouts.html, accessed April
3, 2016.
32. “ISO Standards,” ISO, http://www.iso.org
/iso/home/standards.htm, accessed February 17,
2017.
33. “The ISO Survey of Management System
Standard Certifications 2015: Executive Summary,”
International Organization for Standardization,
December 31, 2015, www.iso.org/iso/the_iso_survey
_of_management_system_standard_certifications
_2015.pdf, accessed February 17, 2017; “The ISO
Survey,” International Organization for Standardization, http://www.iso.org/iso/home/standards
/certification/iso-survey.htm, accessed February
17, 2017.
34. “At Vuitton, Growth in Small Batches—Luxury-Goods Maker’s New French Factory Adds to
Capacity but Sticks to Strategy of Tight Rein,” The
Wall Street Journal, June 27, 2011, p. B1.
35. P. Kowsmann, “Fast Fashion: How a Zara
Coat Went From Design to Fifth Avenue in 25
Days,” The Wall Street Journal, December 6, 2016,
https://www.wsj.com/articles/fast-fashion-how-a
-zara-coat-went-from-design-to-fifth-avenue-in
-25-days-1481080981, accessed February 17,
2017.
36. A. Coolidge, “New Technology Helps Kroger
Speed Up Checkout Times,” USA Today, June 20,
2013, http://www.usatoday.com/story/money
/business/2013/06/20/new-technology-helps
-kroger-speed-up-checkout-times/2443975/,
accessed April 1, 2014.
37. T. Mann, “GE Strikes Deal to Install LED
Lighting at 5,000 J.P. Morgan Bank Branches,”
The Wall Street Journal, February 18, 2016,
https://www.wsj.com/articles/ge-strikes-deal
-to-install-led-lighting-at-5-000-j-p-morgan
-bank-branches-1455836163, accessed February
17, 2017.
38. “Sustainability Initiatives Cut Costs 6–10%,”
Environmental Leader, http://www.environmentalleader.com/2009/06/09/sustainability-initiatives-cutcosts-by-6-10/, accessed April 6, 2013.

360

39. ISO 14000—Environmental Management—
ISO, http://www.iso.org/iso/home/standards/
management-standards/iso14000.htm, accessed
April 17, 2015.

Personal
Finance
Appendix
1. “Infographic: Financial Capability in the United
States 2016, from the National Financial Capability Study” FINRA Investor Education Foundation,
www.usfinancialcapability.org/downloads/2015_Study
_Infographic.pdf, accessed February 24, 2017;
“Stress in America: Part 1,” American Psychological
Association, February 15, 2017, www.apa.org/news
/press/releases/stress/2016/coping-with-change.pdf,
accessed February 24, 2017.
2. J. Berman, “ Where Millennials Go for Financial
Advice,” Wall Street Journal, December 14, 2015,
R8.
3. J. Duffy, “The Best Personal Finance Services
of 2017, January 10, 2017, PC Mag, PCMag.com,
http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2407617,00.
asp, accessed February 24, 2017.
4. “Gain Total Control of Your Money,” YNAB,
https://www.learnvest.com/wp-content/uploads
/2016/12/LearnVest-Financial-Plan-Sample-Only
.pdf, accessed February 24, 2017.
5. D. Bach, The Automatic Millionaire, Broadway
Books (New York): 2004.
6. S. Matz, J. Gladstone & D. Stillwell, “Money
Buys Happiness When Spending Fits Our
Personality,” Psychological Science, v. 27 no. 5
(2016): 715-725.
7. K. Newman, “How Spending Influences
Happiness,” Greater Good, June 6, 2016,
http://greatergood.berkeley.edu/article/item
/how_spending_influences_happiness, accessed
February 24, 2017.
8. “Hardships, Early Withdrawals and Loans,”, Internal Revenue Service, May 26, 2016, https://www.irs
.gov/retirement-plans/hardships-early-withdrawals
-and-loans, accessed February 24, 2017.
9. Bach, David, The Automatic Millionaire, New
York: Broadway Books, 2004.
10. FDIC: What’s Covered, https://www.fdic.gov
/deposit/covered/, accessed February 24, 2017;
FDIC: How Are My Deposit Accounts Insured by
the FDIC?, https://www.fdic.gov/deposit/covered
/categories.html,accessed February 24, 2017.
11. What’s In Your FICO Score? myFICO.com,
http://www.myfico.com/CreditEducation
/WhatsInYourScore.aspx, accessed February 24,
2017; P. Curry, “How Credit Scores Work, How
a Score Is Calculated,” Bankrate.com, http://
www.bankrate.com/brm/news/credit-scoring
/20031104a1.asp, , accessed February 24, 2017.
12. About Credit Scores, Money-Zine.com, http://
www.money-zine.com/financial-planning/debt
-consolidation/about-credit-scores/, accessed
February 24, 2017.
13. How Your Credit Score Affects Your Mortgage,
U.S. News and World Report, March 2, 2011,
http://money.usnews.com/money/blogs/my-money

/2011/03/02/how-your-credit-score-affects-your
-mortgage, accessed February 24, 2017.
14. C. Tsosie, “Credit Card Late Fees Could Rise
In 2017,” NerdWallet, December 22, 2016,
https://www.nerdwallet.com/blog/credit-cards
/credit-card-late-fee-in-2017/, accessed February
24, 2017.
15. C. Prater, “12 Consumer Protections in the
Credit CARD Act,” CreditCards.com, January 28,
2016, http://www.creditcards.com/credit-card-news
/help/card-act-12-consumer-protections-6000.php,
accessed February 24, 2017.
16. We’re On Your Side,” Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, https://www.consumerfinance
.gov/, accessed February 24, 2017.
17. L. McFadden, “What the Dodd-Frank Law
Means for You,” Bankrate.com, June 25, 2010,
http://www.bankrate.com/financing/credit-cards
/what-the-dodd-frank-act-means-for-you/, accessed
April 21, 2013.
18. A. Carrns, “A Little Nagging Can Help Reduce
Credit Card Debt,” New York Times, September 9,
2016, https://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/10/your
-money/a-little-nagging-can-help-reduce-credit
-card-debt.html, accessed February 24, 2017.
19. P. Lach, “What’s the ‘Long Run’ for Investing?
Longer Than You Think,” Wall Street Journal,
February 15, 2017, http://blogs.wsj.com/experts
/2017/02/15/whats-the-long-run-for-investing
-longer-than-you-think/, accessed February 25,
2017.
20. C. Lee and J. Hook, “Fresh Downgrade Threat
to U.S. Debt,” The Wall Street Journal, June 9.
2011, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB1000
1424052702304778304576373992711772366.html,
accessed April 21, 2013.
21. Can Robo Advisers Replace Human Financial
Advisers? by J. F. Podovin, The Wall Street Journal,
February 28, 2016, http://www.wsj.com/articles
/can-robo-advisers-replace-human-financial-advisers
-1456715553, accessed April 6, 2016; The Computer
as a Financial Planner, by P. Sullivan, The New York
Times, June 20, 2015, B5; Behavioral Economist
Richard Thaler on the Key to Retirement Savings,
by Robert Powell, The Wall Street Journal,
November 29, 2015, http://www.wsj.com /articles
/behavioral-economist-richard-thaler-on-the-key
-to-retirement-savings-1448852602, accessed
March 22, 2016; SmartDeposit: Auto- Deposit, But
Smarter, Betterment, https://www.betterment
.com/resources/inside-betterment /product-news
/smartdeposit-auto-deposit-but-smarter/, accessed
April 5, 2016.
22. Table 5. Quartiles and Selected Deciles of
Usual Weekly Earnings of Full-Time Wage and
Salary Workers by Selected Characteristics, Fourth
Quarter 2016 Averages, Not Seasonally Adjusted, Economic News Release, Bureau of Labor
Statistics, January 24, 2017, http://www.bls.gov
/news.release/wkyeng.t05.htm, accessed February
25, 2017.
23. Table A-4. Employment Status of the Civilian
Population 25 Years and Over by Educational
Attainment, Economic News Release, Bureau of
Labor Statistics, February 3, 2017, http://www
.bls.gov/news.release/empsit.t04.htm/, accessed
February 25, 2017.
24. J. Oates & N. Leppink, “U.S. Department
of Labor Advisory: Joint Guidance for States
Seeking to Implement Subsidized Work-Based

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Training Programs for Unemployed Workers,” U.S.
Department of Labor, January 29, 2010, http://wdr
.doleta.gov/directives/attach/TEGL/TEGL12-09acc
.pdf, accessed February 25, 2017; S. Greenhouse,
“The Unpaid Intern, Legal or Not,” New York Times,
April 2, 2010, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/04/03
/business/03intern.html, accessed February 25,
2017.
25. M. Kirchner, “Venmo Doesn’t Make People
Jerks,” New York magazine, May 23, 2016, http://
nymag.com/selectall/2016/05/its-not-venmos-fault
-if-your-friends-are-jerks.html, accessed February
25, 2017; K. Paul, “Venmo is Turning Our Friends
into Petty Jerks,” Quartz, May 19, 2016, — Quartz,

https://qz.com/687395/venmo-is-turning-our
-friends-into-petty-jerks/, , accessed February 25,
2017; S. Pizzi, “Technology is Changing Student
Spending,” Villanovan, February 27, 2017, http://
www.villanovan.com/news/view. php/1027533
/Technology-is-changing-student-spending,
accessed February 25, 2017.
26. While earnings on traditional IRA contributions
Are always tax deferred, there are income-based
Limits on the deductibility of contributions. Thus,
High-income taxpayers are unable to deduct any
Money they contribute to a traditional IRA. For
More specifics, see the IRS guideline: http://www
.irs.gov/Retirement-Plans/Individual-Retirement

-Arrangements-(IRAs)-1, accessed April 28,
2014.
27. “IRS Announces 2017 Pension Plan
Limitations; 401(k) Contribution Limit Remains
Unchanged at $18,000 for 2017,” IRS, October
27, 2016, https://www.irs.gov/uac/newsroom/irs
-announces-2017-pension-plan-limitations-401k
-contribution-limit-remains-unchanged-at-18000
-for-2017, accessed February 25, 2017.
Pg. 333 Fact: Bankrate.com credit card calculator—
How much will the minimum credit card payment
cost me?, http://www.bankrate.com/calculators
/credit-cards/credit-card-payoff-calculator.aspx.

Endnotes
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

361

GLOSSARY
401(k), 403(b), and 457
plans
Employee payroll-deduction
retirement plans that offer
tax benefits.

absolute advantage
The benefit a country has
in a given industry when
it can produce more of a
product than other nations
using the same amount of
resources.

accounting
A system for recognizing,
organizing, analyzing, and
reporting information about
the financial transactions that
affect an organization.

accounting equation
Assets 5 Liabilities 1
Owners’ Equity

accredited investor
An organization or individual investor who meets
certain criteria established
by the SEC and so qualifies
to invest in unregistered
securities.

accrual-basis
accounting
The method of accounting
that recognizes revenue
when it is earned and matches expenses to the revenues
they helped produce.

acquisition
A corporate restructuring
in which one firm buys
another.

active listening
Attentive listening that
occurs when the listener
focuses his or her complete
attention on the speaker.

362

active voice
Sentence construction in
which the subject performs
the action expressed by the
verb (e.g., The accountant
did the taxes.). The active
voice works better for the
vast majority of business
communication.

activity-based costing
(ABC)
A technique to assign
product costs based on links
between activities that drive
costs and the production of
specific products.

administrative law
Laws that arise from regulations established by government agencies.

advergaming
Video games created as a
marketing tool, usually with
brand awareness as the core
goal.

advertising
Paid, nonpersonal communication, designed to influence a target audience with
regard to a product, service,
organization, or idea.

affirmative action
Policies meant to increase
employment and educational
opportunities for minority
groups—especially groups
defined by race, ethnicity, or
gender.

goods they distribute (even
though they may take
physical possession on a
temporary basis before
distribution).

angel investors
Individuals who invest in
start-up companies with high
growth potential in exchange
for a share of ownership.

annual percentage
rate (APR)
The interest expense
charged on a credit card,
expressed as an annual
percentage.

applications software

autocratic leaders
Leaders who hoard decisionmaking power for themselves and typically issue
orders without consulting
their followers.

automation
Replacing human operation
and control of machinery
and equipment with some
form of programmed control.

balance of payments
A measure of the total flow
of money into or out of a
country.

balance of payments
deficit

apprenticeships

Shortfall that occurs when
more money flows out of a
nation than into that nation.

Structured training programs that mandate that
each beginner serve as an
assistant to a fully trained
worker before gaining full
credentials to work in the
field.

arbitration
A process in which a neutral
third party has the authority
to resolve a dispute by rendering a binding decision.

articles of
incorporation

agent
A party who agrees to represent another party, called the
principal.

asset management
ratios

Independent distributors
who do not take title of the

Resources owned by a firm.

Software that helps a user
perform a desired task.

The document filed with a
state government to establish the existence of a new
corporation.

agents/brokers

assets

Financial ratios that measure
how effectively a firm is
using its assets to generate
revenues or cash.

balance of payments
surplus
Overage that occurs when
more money flows into a nation than out of that nation.

balance of trade
A basic measure of the difference in value between a
nation’s exports and imports,
including both goods and
services.

balance sheet
A financial statement that
reports the financial position
of a firm by identifying and
reporting the value of the
firm’s assets, liabilities, and
owners’ equity.

Baldrige National
Quality Program
A national program to
encourage American

Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

firms to focus on quality
improvement.

Banking Act of 1933

budgeted income
statement

business intelligence
system

The overall value of a brand
to an organization.

A projection showing how
a firm’s budgeted sales and
costs will affect expected net
income. (Also called a pro
forma income statement.)

A sophisticated form of
decision support system
that helps decision makers
discover information that
was previously hidden.

brand extension

budgeting

A new product, in a new
category, introduced under
an existing brand name.

business law

A management tool that
explicitly shows how a firm
will acquire and use the resources needed to achieve
its goals over a specific time
period.

The application of laws
and legal principles to
business relationships and
transactions.

image—that sets it apart
from other players in the
same category.

The law that established
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)
to insure bank deposits. It
also prohibited commercial
banks from selling insurance or acting as investment banks.

brand equity

behavioral
segmentation

breach of contract

Dividing the market based
on how people behave toward various products. This
category includes both the
benefits that consumers seek
from products and how consumers use the products.

benefits
Noncash compensation,
including programs such as
health insurance, vacation,
and childcare.

bias
A preconception about
members of a particular
group. Common forms of
bias include gender bias;
age bias; and race, ethnicity, or nationality bias.

board of directors
The individuals who are
elected by stockholders of a
corporation to represent their
interests.

bond
A formal debt instrument
issued by a corporation or
government entity.

boycott
A tactic in which a union and
its supporters and sympathizers refuse to do business
with an employer with which
they have a labor dispute.

brand
A product’s identity—including product name, symbol,
design, reputation, and

The failure of one party to
a contract to perform his or
her contractual obligations.

breakeven analysis
The process of determining
the number of units a firm
must sell to cover all costs.

broadband Internet
connection

business
Any organization or activity that provides goods and
services in an effort to earn
a profit.

business buyer
behavior

An Internet connection that
is capable of transmitting
large amounts of information
very quickly.

Describes how people act
when they are buying products to use either directly or
indirectly to produce other
products.

budget (personal)

business cycle

A detailed forecast of
financial inflows (income)
and outflows (expenses) to
determine your net inflow
or outflow for a given period
of time.

The periodic contraction
and expansion that occur
over time in virtually every
economy.

budget deficit
Shortfall that occurs when
expenses are higher than
revenue over a given period
of time.

budget surplus
Overage that occurs when
revenue is higher than
expenses over a given period
of time.

budgeted balance sheet
A projected financial statement that forecasts the types
and amounts of assets a firm
will need to implement its
future plans and how the firm
will finance those assets. (Also
called a pro forma balance
sheet.)

business environment
The setting in which business operates. The five key
components are: economic
environment, competitive
environment, technological
environment, social
environment, and global
environment.

business ethics
The application of right and
wrong, good and bad, in a
business setting.

business format
franchise
A broad franchise agreement in which the franchisee
pays for the right to use
the name, trademark, and
business and production
methods of the franchisor.

business marketers
(also known as
business-tobusiness or B2B)
Marketers who direct their
efforts toward people who
are buying products to use
either directly or indirectly
to produce other products.

business plan
A formal document that
describes a business concept,
outlines core business objectives, and details strategies
and timelines for achieving
those objectives.

business products
Products purchased to use
either directly or indirectly
in the production of other
products.

business technology
Any tools—especially computers, telecommunications,
and other digital products—
that businesses can use to
become more efficient and
effective.

business-to-business
(B2B) e-commerce
E-commerce in markets
where businesses buy
from and sell to other
businesses.

business-to-consumer
(B2C) e-commerce
E-commerce in which businesses and final consumers
interact.
Glossary

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

363

buzz marketing

carbon footprint

Chapter 7 bankruptcy

The active stimulation of
word-of-mouth via unconventional, and often relatively low-cost, tactics. Other
terms for buzz marketing are
“guerrilla marketing” and
“viral marketing.”

Refers to the amount of
harmful greenhouse gases
that a firm emits throughout
its operations, both directly
and indirectly.

A form of bankruptcy that
discharges a debtor’s debts
by liquidating assets and
using the proceeds to pay off
creditors.

case law (also called
common law)

Chapter 11 bankruptcy

C corporation
The most common type of
corporation, which is a legal
business entity that offers
limited liability to all of
its owners, who are called
stockholders.

cafeteria-style benefits
An approach to employee
benefits that gives all employees a set dollar amount
that they must spend on
company benefits, allocated
however they wish within
broad limitations.

cannibalization
When a producer offers
a new product that takes
sales away from its existing
products.

capital budgeting
The process a firm uses to
evaluate long-term investment proposals.

capital gain
The return on an asset that
results when its market price
rises above the price the
investor paid for it.

capital structure
The mix of equity and debt
financing a firm uses to meet
its permanent financing
needs.

capitalism
An economic system—
also known as the private
enterprise or free market system—based on
private ownership, economic freedom, and fair
competition.

364

Laws that result from rulings, called precedents,
made by judges who initially
hear a particular type of
case.

cash budget
A detailed forecast of future
cash flows that helps financial
managers identify when
their firm is likely to experience temporary shortages or
surpluses of cash.

cash equivalents
Safe and highly liquid assets
that many firms list with
their cash holdings on their
balance sheet.

cause-related
marketing

A form of bankruptcy used
by corporations and individuals that allows the debtor to
reorganize operations under
a court-approved plan.

Chapter 13 bankruptcy
A form of bankruptcy that
allows individual debtors to
set up a repayment plan to
adjust their debts.

Civil Rights Act of 1964
Federal legislation that
prohibits discrimination in
hiring, firing, compensation,
apprenticeships, training,
terms, conditions, or privileges of employment based
on race, color, religion, sex,
or national origin.

closed shop

Marketing partnerships
between businesses and
nonprofit organizations, designed to spike sales for the
company and raise money
for the nonprofit.

An employment arrangement in which the employer
agrees to hire only workers
who already belong to the
union.

certificate of deposit
(CD)

The use of Internet-based
storage capacity, processing power, and computer
applications to supplement
or replace internally owned
information technology
resources.

An interest-earning deposit
that requires the funds to
remain deposited for a
fixed term. Withdrawal of
the funds before the term
expires results in a financial
penalty.

channel intermediaries
Distribution organizations
that facilitate the movement
of products from the producer
to the consumer.

channel of distribution
The network of organizations and processes that links
producers to consumers.

cloud computing

cobranding
When established brands
from different companies
join forces to market the
same product.

code of ethics
A formal, written document
that defines the ethical
standards of an organization
and gives employees the
information they need to

make ethical decisions across
a range of situations.

cognitive dissonance
Consumer discomfort with a
purchase decision, typically
for a higher-priced item.

collective bargaining
The process by which representatives of union members
and employers attempt to
negotiate a mutually acceptable labor agreement.

commercial banks
Privately owned financial
institutions that accept
demand deposits and make
loans and provide other
services for the public.

commercial paper
Short-term (and usually
unsecured) promissory notes
issued by large corporations.

common market
A group of countries that
have eliminated tariffs and
harmonized trading rules
to facilitate the free flow of
goods among the member
nations.

common stock
The basic form of ownership
in a corporation.

communication
The transmission of information between a sender and a
recipient.

communication
barriers
Obstacles to effective
communication, typically
defined in terms of physical,
language, body language,
cultural, perceptual, and
organizational barriers.

communication
channels
The various ways in which a
message can be sent, ranging
from one-on-one in-person

Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

meetings to Internet message boards.

attaching itself to emails or
other files.

communism

computer-aided design
(CAD)

An economic and political
system that calls for public
ownership of virtually all
enterprises, under the
direction of a strong central
government.

company matching
An amount contributed by
the employer to an employee’s retirement account,
matching the employee’s
retirement contributions
either dollar for dollar or
based on a percentage of
each dollar contributed by
the employee.

comparative advantage
The benefit a country has
in a given industry if it can
make products at a lower
opportunity cost than other
countries.

compensation
The combination of pay
and benefits that employees
receive in exchange for their
work.

compensatory damages
Monetary payments that
a party who breaches a
contract is ordered to pay
in order to compensate the
injured party for the actual
harm suffered by the breach
of contract.

compressed workweek
A version of flextime scheduling that allows employees
to work a full-time number
of hours in less than the
standard workweek.

computer virus
Computer software that
can be spread from one
computer to another without
the knowledge or permission
of the computer users by

Drawing and drafting
software that enables users
to create and edit blueprints
and design drawings quickly
and easily.

computer-aided
design/computer-aided
manufacturing (CAD/
CAM)
A combination of software
that can be used to design
output and send instructions
to automated equipment to
perform the steps needed to
produce this output.

computer-aided
engineering (CAE)
Software that enables users
to test, analyze, and optimize
their designs.

computer-aided
manufacturing (CAM)
Software that takes the electronic design for a product
and creates the programmed
instructions that robots must
follow to produce that product as efficiently as possible.

computer-integrated
manufacturing (CIM)
A combination of CAD/
CAM software with flexible
manufacturing systems to
automate almost all steps involved in designing, testing,
and producing a product.

conceptual skills

consideration
Something of value that one
party gives another as part of
a contractual agreement.

to be safe, (2) the right to
be informed, (3) the right to
choose, and (4) the right to
be heard.

constitution

contingency planning

A code that establishes the
fundamental rules and principles that govern a particular organization or entity.

Planning for unexpected
events, usually involving a
range of scenarios and assumptions that differ from
the assumptions behind the
core plans.

consumer behavior
Description of how people
act when they are buying,
using, and discarding goods
and services for their own
personal consumption. Consumer behavior also explores
the reasons behind people’s
actions.

consumer marketers
(also known as
business-to-consumer
or B2C)
Marketers who direct their
efforts toward people who
are buying products for
personal consumption.

consumer price index
(CPI)
A measure of inflation that
evaluates the change in the
weighted-average price of
goods and services that the
average consumer buys each
month.

contingent workers
Employees who do not expect regular, full-time jobs,
including temporary fulltime workers, independent
contractors, and temporary
agency or contract agency
workers.

contract
An agreement that is legally
enforceable.

contraction
A period of economic
downturn, marked by rising
unemployment and falling
business production.

controlling
Monitoring performance
and making adjustments as
needed.

convertible security

Products purchased
for personal use or
consumption.

A bond or share of preferred
stock that gives its holder
the right to exchange it for a
stated number of shares of
common stock.

consumer promotion

copyright

consumer products

The ability to grasp a bigpicture view of the overall
organization, the relationships among its various parts,
and its fit in the broader
competitive environment.

Marketing activities designed to generate immediate consumer sales, using
tools such as premiums,
promotional products,
samples, coupons, rebates,
and displays.

The exclusive legal right of
an author, artist, or other
creative individual to use,
copy, display, perform, and
sell their own creations and
to license others to do so.

conglomerate merger

consumerism

A combination of two
firms that are in unrelated
industries.

A social movement that
focuses on four key consumer rights: (1) the right

The basic rules governing
how a corporation is organized and how it conducts
its business.

corporate bylaws

Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

365

corporate philanthropy
All business donations to
nonprofit groups, including money, products, and
employee time.

corporate
responsibility

credit score
A numerical measure of a
consumer’s creditworthiness.

credit union

Business contributions to
the community through the
actions of the business itself
rather than donations of
money and time.

A depository institution that
is organized as a cooperative,
meaning that it is owned by
its depositors.

corporation

A wrongful act against
society, defined by law and
prosecuted by the state.

A form of business ownership in which the business is
considered a legal entity that
is separate and distinct from
its owners.

cost
The value of what is given up
in exchange for something.

countertrade
International trade that involves the barter of products
for products rather than for
currency.

coupon rate
The interest paid on a bond,
expressed as a percentage of
the bond’s par value.

covenant
A restriction lenders impose
on borrowers as a condition
of providing long-term debt
financing.

craft union
A union comprising workers
who share the same skill or
work in the same profession.

credit
Allows a borrower to buy
a good or acquire an asset
without making immediate
payment, and to repay the
balance at a later time.

credit card
A card issued by a bank or
finance company that allows
the cardholder to make a

366

purchase now and pay the
credit card issuer later.

crime

critical path method
(CPM)
A project-management tool
that illustrates the relationships among all the activities
involved in completing a
project and identifies the sequence of activities likely to
take the longest to complete.

critical path
The sequence of activities in
a project that is expected to
take the longest to complete.

current yield
The amount of interest
earned on a bond, expressed
as a percentage of the bond’s
current market price.

customer benefit
The advantage that a customer gains from specific
product features.

customer loyalty
When customers buy a product from the same supplier
again and again—sometimes
paying even more for it than
they would for a competitive
product.

customer satisfaction
When customers perceive
that a good or service delivers value above and beyond
their expectations.

cybermediary
An Internet-based firm that
specializes in the secure
electronic transfer of funds.

data
Raw, unprocessed facts and
figures.

data mining
The use of sophisticated
statistical and mathematical
techniques to analyze vast
amounts of data to discover
hidden patterns and relationships, thus creating valuable
information.

data warehouse
A large, organization-wide
database that stores data in a
centralized location.

database
A file consisting of related
data organized according to a
logical system and stored on
a hard drive or some other
computer-accessible media.

debit card
A card issued by the bank
that allows the customer
to make purchases as if the
transaction involved cash.
In a debit card purchase,
the customer’s bank
account is immediately
reduced when the purchase
is made.

debt financing
Funds provided by lenders
(creditors).

customer relationship
management (CRM)

decision support
system (DSS)

The ongoing process of
acquiring, maintaining, and
growing profitable customer
relationships by delivering
unmatched value.

A system that gives managers access to large amounts
of data and the processing
power to convert these
data into high-quality

information, thus improving
the decision-making process.

deflation
A period of falling average
prices across the economy.

degree of centralization
The extent to which
decision-making power is
held by a small number
of people at the top of the
organization.

demand
The quantity of products
that consumers are willing
to buy at different market
prices.

demand curve
The graphed relationship
between price and quantity
from a customer demand
standpoint.

democratic leaders
Leaders who share power
with their followers. While
they still make final decisions, they typically solicit
and incorporate input from
their followers.

demographic
segmentation
Dividing the market into
smaller groups based on
measurable characteristics
about people, such as age,
income, ethnicity, and
gender.

demographics
The measurable characteristics of a population.
Demographic factors include
population size and density
as well as specific traits such
as age, gender, and race.

departmentalization
The division of workers into
logical groups.

depository institution
A financial intermediary that
obtains funds by accepting checking and savings

Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

deposits and then lending
those funds to borrowers.

divestiture

An especially deep and longlasting recession.

The transfer of total or
partial ownership of some
of a firm’s operations to
investors or to another
company.

direct channel

Dodd-Frank Act

depression

A distribution process
that links the producer
and the customer with no
intermediaries.

direct cost
Costs that are incurred
directly as the result of some
specific cost object.

direct investment
(or foreign direct investment) When firms either
acquire foreign firms or
develop new facilities from
the ground up in foreign
countries.

discount rate
The rate of interest that the
Federal Reserve charges
when it loans funds to banks.

A law enacted in the aftermath of the financial crisis
of 2008–2009 that strengthened government oversight
of financial markets and
placed limitations on
risky financial strategies
such as heavy reliance on
leverage.

Dow Jones Industrial
Average (DJIA)
An index that tracks stock
prices of 30 large, wellknown U.S. corporations.

dynamic delivery
Vibrant, compelling presentation delivery style that
grabs and holds the attention
of the audience.

between price and perceived
benefits.

efficiency
Producing output or achieving a goal at the lowest cost.

electronic bill
presentment and
payment
A method of bill payment
that makes it easy for
the customer to make a
payment, often by simply
clicking on a payment option
contained in an email.

electronic
communications
network (ECN)
An automated, computerized
securities trading system that
automatically matches buyers
and sellers, executing trades
quickly and allowing trading
when securities exchanges are
closed.

e-marketplace

entrepreneurs
People who risk their time,
money, and other resources
to start and manage a
business.

environmental
scanning
The process of continually
collecting information from
the external marketing
environment.

Equal Employment
Opportunity
Commission (EEOC)
A federal agency designed
to regulate and enforce the
provisions of Title VII.

equilibrium price
The price associated with
the point at which the quantity demanded of a product
equals the quantity supplied.

equity financing
Funds provided by the owners of a company.

Expenditures for which the
spender has significant control in terms of the amount
and timing.

The marketing, buying, selling, and servicing of products
over a network (usually the
Internet).

A specialized Internet site
where buyers and sellers
engaged in business-tobusiness e-commerce can
communicate and conduct
business.

disinflation

economic system

embargo

ethical dilemma

A period of slowing average
price increases across the
economy.

A structure for allocating
limited resources.

distribution strategy

A complete ban on international trade of a certain item,
or a total halt in trade with a
particular nation.

The study of the choices that
people, companies, and governments make in allocating
society’s resources.

A decision that involves
a conflict of values; every
potential course of action
has some significant negative
consequences.

discretionary payments

A plan for delivering the
right product to the right
person at the right place at
the right time.

distributive bargaining
The traditional adversarial
approach to collective bargaining.

distributorship
A type of franchising arrangement in which the
franchisor makes a product
and licenses the franchisee
to sell it.

e-commerce

economics

economy
A financial and social
system of how resources
flow through society, from
production to distribution, to
consumption.

effectiveness
Using resources to create
value by providing customers
with goods and services that
offer a better relationship

employment at will
A legal doctrine that views
employment as an entirely
voluntary relationship that
both the employee and
employer are free to terminate at any time and for any
reason.

enterprise resource
planning (ERP)
Software-based approach to
integrate an organization’s
(and in the sophisticated
versions, a value chain’s)
information flows.

equity theory
A motivation theory that
proposes that perceptions
of fairness directly affect
worker motivation.

ethics
A set of beliefs about right
and wrong, good and bad.

European Union (EU)
The world’s largest common
market, composed of 28
European nations.

everyday-low pricing
(EDLP)
Long-term discount pricing,
designed to achieve profitability through high sales
volume.
Glossary

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

367

exchange rate
A measurement of the value
of one nation’s currency relative to the currency of other
nations.

exchange traded fund
(ETF)
Shares traded on securities
markets that represent the
legal right of ownership over
part of a basket of individual
stock certificates or other
securities.

expansion
A period of robust economic
growth and high employment.

expectancy theory
A motivation theory that
concerns the relationship
among individual effort,
individual performance, and
individual reward.

expenses
Resources that are used
up as the result of business
operations.

expert system (ES)
A decision support system
that helps managers make
better decisions in an area
where they lack expertise.

exporting
Selling products in foreign
nations that have been produced or grown domestically.

external locus of
control
A deep-seated sense that
forces other than the individual are responsible for
what happens in his or her
life.

factor
A company that provides
short-term financing to firms
by purchasing their accounts
receivables at a discount.

factors of production
Four fundamental elements—natural resources,
capital, human resources,
and entrepreneurship—that
businesses need to achieve
their objectives.

federal debt
The sum of all the money
that the federal government
has borrowed over the years
and not yet repaid.

Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation
(FDIC)
An independent agency created by Congress to maintain
stability and public confidence in the nation’s financial
system, primarily by insuring
bank deposits.

Federal Reserve Act of
1913
The law that established the
Federal Reserve System as
the central bank of the United
States.

finance
The functional area of business that is concerned with
finding the best sources
and uses of financial
capital.

Financial Accounting
Standards Board
(FASB)

The process of seeking new
employees from outside the
firm.

The private board that establishes the generally accepted
accounting principles used
in the practice of financial
accounting.

extranet

financial accounting

An intranet that allows limited
access to a selected group of

The branch of accounting that
prepares financial statements

external recruitment

368

stakeholders, such as suppliers
or customers.

for use by owners, creditors,
suppliers, and other external
stakeholders.

financial budgets
Budgets that focus on the
firm’s financial goals and
identify the resources needed to achieve these goals.

financial capital
The funds a firm uses to
acquire its assets and finance
its operations.

financial diversification
A strategy of investing in a
wide variety of securities in
order to reduce risk.

financial leverage
The use of debt in a firm’s
capital structure.

financial markets
Markets that transfer funds
from savers to borrowers.

financial ratio analysis

fiscal policy
Government efforts to influence the economy through
taxation and spending.

fixed costs
Costs that remain the same
when the level of production changes within some
relevant range.

flextime
A scheduling option that
allows workers to choose
when they start and finish
their workdays, as long as
they complete the required
number of hours.

foreign franchising
A specialized type of foreign
licensing in which a firm expands by offering businesses
in other countries the right
to produce and market its
products according to specific operating requirements.

foreign licensing

Computing ratios that compare values of key accounts
listed on a firm’s financial
statements.

Authority granted by a domestic firm to a foreign firm
for the rights to produce and
market its product or to use
its trademark/patent rights in
a defined geographical area.

Financial Services
Modernization Act of
1999

foreign outsourcing

An act that overturned the
section of the Banking Act
of 1933 that prohibited commercial banks from selling
insurance or performing
the functions of investment
banks.

firewall
Software and/or hardware
designed to prevent unwanted access to a computer
or computer system.

first-line (supervisory)
management
Managers who directly
supervise nonmanagement
employees.

(also contract manufacturing) Contracting with
foreign suppliers to produce
products, usually at a fraction of the cost of domestic
production.

franchise
A licensing arrangement
under which a franchisor
allows franchisees to use its
name, trademark, products,
business methods, and other
property in exchange for
monetary payments and
other considerations.

franchise agreement
The contractual arrangement between a franchisor
and franchisee that spells

Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

out the duties and responsibilities of both parties.

preparation of financial
statements.

Franchise Disclosure
Document (FDD)

geographic
segmentation

A detailed description of all
aspects of a franchise that
the franchisor must provide
to the franchisee at least 14
calendar days before the franchise agreement is signed.

Dividing the market into
smaller groups based on
where consumers live. This
process can incorporate
countries, cities, or population density as key factors.

franchisee

goods

The party in a franchise
relationship that pays for
the right to use resources
supplied by the franchisor.

Tangible products.

franchisor
The business entity in a franchise relationship that allows
others to operate its business
using resources it supplies
in exchange for money and
other considerations.

free trade
The unrestricted movement
of goods and services across
international borders.

free-rein leaders
Leaders who set objectives
for their followers but give
them freedom to choose how
they will accomplish those
goals.

General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade
(GATT)
An international trade
treaty designed to encourage
worldwide trade among its
members.

general partnership
A partnership in which all
partners can take an active
role in managing the business and have unlimited liability for any claims against
the firm.

generally accepted
accounting principles
(GAAP)
A set of accounting standards that is used in the

grace period
The period of time that the
credit card holder has to pay
outstanding balances before
interest or fees are assessed.

green marketing
Developing and promoting environmentally sound
products and practices to
gain a competitive edge.

grievance
A complaint by a worker
that the employer has
violated the terms of the
collective bargaining agreement.

gross domestic product
(GDP) The total value of
all final goods and services
produced within a nation’s
physical boundaries over a
given period of time.

hacker
A skilled computer user who
uses his or her expertise to
gain unauthorized access to
the computer (or computer
system) of others, sometimes
with malicious intent.

hardware
The physical tools and
equipment used to collect,
input, store, organize, and
process data and to distribute information.

stores by special sales on a
limited number of products,
and higher everyday prices
on others.

expenses, and net income
that resulted from a firm’s
operations over an accounting period.

horizontal analysis

independent
wholesaling businesses

Analysis of financial statements that compares
account values reported on
these statements over two
or more years to identify
changes and trends.

horizontal merger
A combination of two firms
that are in the same industry.

human resource (HR)
management

Independent distributors
that buy products from a
range of different businesses
and sell those products to a
range of different customers.

indirect costs
Costs that are the result of a
firm’s general operations and
are not directly tied to any
specific cost object.

The management function focused on maximizing
the effectiveness of the
workforce by recruiting
world-class talent, promoting career development,
and determining workforce
strategies to boost organizational effectiveness.

industrial union

human skills

information

The ability to work effectively with and through other
people in a range of different
relationships.

Data that have been processed in a way that make
them meaningful to their
user.

hyperinflation

infrastructure

An average monthly inflation
rate of more than 50%.

A country’s physical facilities that support economic
activity.

immediate
predecessors
Activities in a project that
must be completed before
some other specified activity
can begin.

implicit cost
The opportunity cost that
arises when a firm uses
owner-supplied resources.

importing
Buying products domestically that have been produced
or grown in foreign nations.

high/low pricing

income statement

A pricing strategy designed
to drive traffic to retail

The financial statement
that reports the revenues,

A union comprising workers employed in the same
industry.

inflation
A period of rising average
prices across the economy.

initial public offering
(IPO)
The first time a company
issues stock that may be
bought by the general
public.

institutional investor
An organization that pools
contributions from investors, clients, or depositors
and uses these funds to buy
stocks and other securities.

integrated marketing
communication
The coordination of marketing messages through
every promotional vehicle
Glossary

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

369

to communicate a unified
impression about a product.

intellectual property
Property that is the result
of creative or intellectual
effort, such as books, musical works, inventions, and
computer software.

intercultural
communication
Communication among
people with differing cultural backgrounds.

interest-based
bargaining
A form of collective bargaining that emphasizes cooperation and problem solving in
an attempt to find a “win–
win” outcome.

internal locus of
control
A deep-seated sense that
the individual is personally
responsible for what happens
in his or her life.

internal recruitment
The process of seeking
employees who are currently
within the firm to fill open
positions.

International Monetary
Fund (IMF)
An international organization of 188 member nations
that promotes international
economic cooperation and
stable growth.

Internet
The world’s largest computer network; essentially
a network of computer networks all operating under
a common set of rules that
allow them to communicate
with each other.

Internet2 (I2)
A new high-tech Internet
with access limited to a
consortium of member
organizations (and other

370

organizations these members sponsor). I2 utilizes
technologies that give it
a speed and capacity far
exceeding the current
Internet.

job description

intranet

The creation of jobs with
more meaningful content,
under the assumption that
challenging, creative work
will motivate employees.

A private network that has
the look and feel of the Internet and is navigated using
a web browser, but which
limits access to a single firm’s
employees (or a single organization’s members).

inventory
Stocks of goods or other items
held by organizations.

investing
Reducing consumption in
the current time period in
order to build future wealth.

investment bank
A financial intermediary that
specializes in helping firms
raise financial capital by
issuing securities in primary
markets.

IRA
An individual retirement
account that provides tax
benefits to individuals
who are investing for their
retirement.

ISO 14000
A family of generic standards
for environmental management established by the
International Organization
for Standardization.

ISO 9000
A family of generic standards
for quality management
systems established by the
International Organization
for Standardization.

job analysis
The examination of specific
tasks that are assigned to
each position, independent
of who might be holding the
job at any specific time.

An explanation of the
responsibilities for a specific
position.

job enrichment

job specifications
The specific qualifications
necessary to hold a particular
position.

joint ventures
When two or more companies join forces—sharing
resources, risks, and profits,
but not actually merging
companies—to pursue specific opportunities.

just-in-time (JIT)
production
A production system that
emphasizes the production
of goods to meet actual
current demand, thus
minimizing the need to hold
inventories of finished goods
and work in process at each
stage of the supply chain.

labor union
A group of workers who have
organized to work together to achieve common
job-related goals, such as
higher wages, better working
conditions, and greater job
security.

Labor–Management
Relations Act (Taft–
Hartley Act)
Law passed in 1947 that
placed limits on union
activities, outlawed the
closed shop, and allowed
states to pass right-to-work
laws that made union shops
illegal.

laws
Rules that govern the conduct and actions of people

within a society that are
enforced by the government.

leading
Directing and motivating
people to achieve organizational goals.

lean production
An approach to production that emphasizes the
elimination of waste in
all aspects of production
processes.

leverage ratios
Ratios that measure the extent to which a firm relies on
debt financing in its capital
structure.

liabilities
Claims that outsiders have
against a firm’s assets.

licensing
Purchasing the right to use
another company’s brand
name or symbol.

limit order
An order to a broker to buy a
specific stock only if its price
is below a certain level, or to
sell a specific stock only if its
price is above a certain level.

limited liability
When owners are not
personally liable for claims
against their firm. Owners
with limited liability may
lose their investment in
the company, but their
other personal assets are
protected.

limited liability
company (LLC)
A form of business ownership that offers both limited
liability to its owners and
flexible tax treatment.

limited liability
partnership (LLP)
A form of partnership in
which all partners have
the right to participate in

Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

management and have
limited liability for company
debts.

lockout

limited partnership

logistics

A partnership that includes
at least one general partner
who actively manages the
company and accepts unlimited liability and one limited
partner who gives up the
right to actively manage the
company in exchange for
limited liability.

A subset of supply chain
management that focuses
largely on the tactics involved in moving products
along the supply chain.

line-and-staff
organizations

An employer-initiated work
stoppage.

loss
When a business incurs expenses that are greater than
its revenue.

loss-leader pricing

Organizations with line managers forming the primary
chain of authority in the
company, and staff departments working alongside line
departments.

Closely related to high/low
pricing, loss-leader pricing
means pricing a handful of
items—or loss leaders—
temporarily below cost to
drive traffic.

line extensions

M1 money supply

Similar products offered
under the same brand name.

line managers
Managers who supervise
the functions that contribute directly to profitability:
production and marketing.

line of credit
A financial arrangement
between a firm and a bank
in which the bank preapproves credit up to a
specified limit, provided
that the firm maintains an
acceptable credit rating.

line organizations
Organizations with a clear,
simple chain of command
from top to bottom.

liquid asset
An asset that can quickly be
converted into cash with little
risk of loss.

liquidity ratios
Financial ratios that measure
the ability of a firm to obtain
the cash it needs to pay its
short-term debt obligations
as they come due.

Includes all currency plus
checking accounts and traveler’s checks.

M2 money supply
Includes all of M1 money
supply plus most savings
accounts, money market
accounts, and certificates of
deposit.

develop the skills they need
to move into leadership
positions.

managerial (or
management)
accounting
The branch of accounting
that provides reports and
analysis to managers to help
them make informed business decisions.

market makers
Securities dealers that make
a commitment to continuously offer to buy and sell
the stock of a specific corporation listed on the NASDAQ exchange or traded in
the OTC market.

market niche
A small segment of a market
with fewer competitors than
the market as a whole. Market niches tend to be quite
attractive to small firms.

market order
An order telling a broker to
buy or sell a specific security
at the best currently available price.

macroeconomics

market segmentation

The study of a country’s
overall economic dynamics,
such as the employment rate,
the gross domestic product,
and taxation policies.

market share

malware
A general term for malicious
software, such as spyware,
computer viruses, and worms.

management
Achieving the goals of an organization through planning,
organizing, leading, and
controlling organizational
resources including people,
money, and time.

management
development
Programs to help current
and potential executives

Dividing potential customers into groups of similar
people, or segments.

The percentage of a market
controlled by a given
marketer.

marketing
An organizational function
and a set of processes for
creating, communicating, and
delivering value to customers
and for managing customer
relationships in ways that
benefit the organization and
its stakeholders.

marketing concept
A business philosophy
that makes customer
satisfaction—now and in the

future—the central focus of
the entire organization.

marketing mix
The blend of marketing
strategies for product, price,
distribution, and promotion.

marketing plan
A formal document that
defines marketing objectives
and the specific strategies
for achieving those
objectives.

marketing research
The process of gathering,
interpreting, and applying information to uncover
marketing opportunities
and challenges, and to
make better marketing
decisions.

Maslow’s hierarchy of
needs theory
A motivation theory that
suggests that human needs
fall into a hierarchy and that
as each need is met, people
become motivated to meet
the next-highest need in the
pyramid.

mass customization
The creation of products tailored for individual consumers on a mass basis.

master budget
A presentation of an
organization’s operational
and financial budgets that
represents the firm’s overall
plan of action for a specified
time period.

matrix organizations
Organizations with a flexible
structure that brings together specialists from different
areas of the company to
work on individual projects
on a temporary basis.

maturity date
The date when a bond will
come due.
Glossary

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

371

mediation
A method of dealing with an
impasse between labor and
management by bringing in
a neutral third party to help
the two sides reach agreement by reducing tensions
and making suggestions for
possible compromises.

merchant wholesalers
Independent distributors
who take legal possession,
or title, of the goods they
distribute.

merger
A corporate restructuring
that occurs when two formerly independent business
entities combine to form a
new organization.

microeconomics
The study of smaller
economic units such as individual consumers, families,
and individual businesses.

middle management
Managers who supervise
lower-level managers and
report to a higher-level
manager.

mission
The definition of an organization’s purpose, values, and
core goals, which provides
the framework for all other
plans.

mixed economies
Economies that embody
elements of both planned
and market-based economic
systems.

modes of
transportation
The various transportation
options—such as planes,
trains, and railroads—for
moving products through the
supply chain.

monetary policy
Federal Reserve decisions
that shape the economy by

372

influencing interest rates
and the supply of money.

money
Anything generally accepted
as a medium of exchange, a
measure of value, or a means
of payment.

money market mutual
funds
A mutual fund that pools
funds from many investors
and uses these funds to purchase very safe, highly liquid
securities.

money supply

national brands
Brands that the producer
owns and markets.

National Labor
Relations Act (Wagner
Act)
Landmark pro-labor law
enacted in 1935. This law
made it illegal for firms to
discriminate against union
members and required
employers to recognize certified unions and bargain with
them in good faith.

natural monopoly

A market structure with
many competitors selling
differentiated products. Barriers to entry are low.

A market structure with
one company as the supplier of a product because
the nature of that product
makes a single supplier
more efficient than multiple, competing ones. Most
natural monopolies are
government sanctioned and
regulated.

monopoly

negligence

A market structure with one
producer completely dominating the industry, leaving
no room for any significant
competitors. Barriers to
entry tend to be virtually
insurmountable.

An unintentional tort that
arises due to carelessness or
irresponsible behavior.

The total amount of money
within the overall economy.

monopolistic
competition

multichannel retailing
Providing multiple distribution channels for consumers
to buy a product.

multilevel marketing
(MLM)
Involves hiring independent
contractors to sell products
to their personal network of
friends and colleagues and
to recruit new salespeople
in return for a percentage of
their commissions.

mutual fund
An institutional investor that
raises funds by selling shares
to investors and uses the
accumulated funds to buy a
portfolio of many different
securities.

net asset value per
share
The value of a mutual fund’s
securities and cash holdings
minus any liabilities, divided
by the number of shares of
the fund outstanding.

net income
The difference between the
revenue a firm earns and the
expenses it incurs in a given
time period.

net present value (NPV)
The sum of the present
values of expected future
cash flows from an investment, minus the cost of that
investment.

noise
Any interference that causes
the message you send to be
different from the message
your audience understands.

nondiscretionary
payments
Expenditures that the
spender has little or no
control over.

nonprofit corporation
A corporation that does not
seek to earn a profit and
differs in several fundamental respects from C
corporations.

nonprofits
Business-like establishments
that employ people and
produce goods and services
with the fundamental goal of
contributing to the community rather than generating
financial gain.

nonverbal
communication
Communication that does
not use words. Common
forms of nonverbal communication include gestures,
posture, facial expressions,
tone of voice, and eye
contact.

North American Free
Trade Agreement
(NAFTA)
The treaty among the United
States, Mexico, and Canada
that eliminated trade barriers
and investment restrictions
over a 15-year period starting
in 1994.

observation research
Marketing research that
does not require the researcher to interact with the
research subject.

odd pricing
The practice of ending
prices in numbers below
even dollars and cents in
order to create a perception
of greater value.

offshoring
Moving production or support processes to foreign
countries.

Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

oligopoly

organizing

A market structure with only
a handful of competitors
selling products that can be
similar or different. Barriers
to entry are typically high.

Determining a structure for
both individual jobs and the
overall organization.

on-the-job training
A training approach that requires employees to simply
begin their jobs—sometimes
guided by more experienced
employees—and to learn as
they go.

open market
operations
The Federal Reserve function of buying and selling
government securities,
which include treasury
bonds, notes, and bills.

open shop
An employment arrangement in which workers are
not required to join a union
or pay union dues.

operating budgets
Budgets that communicate
an organization’s sales and
production goals and the
resources needed to achieve
these goals.

operational planning
Very specific, short-term
planning that applies tactical
plans to daily, weekly, and
monthly operations.

operations
management
Managing all of the activities
involved in creating value
by producing goods and
services and distributing
them to customers.

opportunity cost
The opportunity of giving up
the second-best choice when
making a decision.

organization chart
A visual representation
of the company’s formal
structure.

orientation
The first step in the training
and development process, designed to introduce employees
to the company culture and
provide key administrative
information.

out-of-pocket cost
A cost that involves the
payment of money or other
resources.

outsourcing
Arranging for other
organizations to perform
supply chain functions that
were previously performed
internally.

over-the-counter (OTC)
market
The market where securities that are not listed on
exchanges are traded.

owners’ equity
The claims a firm’s owners
have against their company’s
assets (often called “stockholders’ equity” on balance
sheets of corporations).

par value (of a bond)
The value of a bond at its
maturity; what the issuer promises to pay the
bondholder when the bond
matures.

partnership
A voluntary agreement
under which two or more
people act as co-owners of a
business for profit.

passive voice tends to be
less effective for business
communication.

patent
A legal monopoly that gives
an inventor the exclusive
right over an invention for a
limited time period.

penetration pricing
A new product pricing strategy that aims to capture as
much of the market as possible through rock-bottom
prices.

planned obsolescence
The strategy of deliberately
designing products to fail
in order to shorten the time
between purchases.

planning
Determining organizational
goals and action plans for
how to achieve those goals.

poka-yokes
Simple methods incorporated into a production process
designed to eliminate or
greatly reduce errors.

performance appraisal

positioning statement

A formal feedback process
that requires managers
to give their subordinates
feedback on a one-to-one
basis, typically by comparing
actual results to expected
results.

preferred stock

personal selling
The person-to-person
presentation of products to
potential buyers.

pharming
A scam that seeks to steal
identities by routing Internet
traffic to fake websites.

phishing
A scam in which of officiallooking emails are sent to
individuals in an attempt
to get them to divulge
private information such as
passwords, usernames, and
account numbers.

physical distribution
The actual, physical movement of products along the
distribution pathway.

passive voice

picketing

Sentence construction in
which the subject does not
do the action expressed
by the verb; rather, the
subject is acted upon (e.g.,
The taxes were done by
our accountant.). The

A union tactic during labor
disputes in which union
members walk near the
entrance of the employer’s
place of business, carrying signs to publicize their
position and concerns.

A brief statement that
articulates how the marketer
would like the target market
to envision a product relative
to the competition.

A type of stock that gives its
holder preference over common stockholders in terms
of dividends and claims on
assets.

present value
The amount of money that,
if invested today at a given
rate of interest (called the
discount rate), would grow
to become some future
amount in a specified number of time periods.

primary data
New data that marketers compile for a specific
research project.

primary securities
market
The market where newly
issued securities are traded.
The primary market is where
the firms that issue securities raise additional financial
capital.

principal
A party who agrees to have
someone else (called an
agent) act on his or her
behalf.
Glossary

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

373

principal–agent
relationship
A relationship in which one
party, called the principal,
gives another party, called
the agent, the authority to
act in place of, and bind, the
principal when dealing with
third parties.

private placement
A primary market issue that
is negotiated between the
issuing corporation and a
small group of accredited
investors.

privatization
The process of converting
government-owned businesses to private ownership.

probationary period
A specific time frame (typically three to six months)
during which a new hire
can prove his or her worth
on the job before he or she
becomes permanent.

process
A set of related activities
that transform inputs into
outputs, thus adding value.

producer price index
(PPI)
A measure of inflation that
evaluates the change over
time in the weighted-average
wholesale prices.

product
Anything that an organization
offers to satisfy consumer
needs and wants, including
both goods and services.

product consistency
How reliably a product
delivers its promised level of
quality.

product differentiation
The attributes that make
a good or service different
from other products that
compete to meet the same
or similar customer needs.

374

product features
The specific characteristics
of a product.

consumer purchase decisions through information,
persuasion, and reminders.

product life cycle

promotional channels

A pattern of sales and profits
that typically changes over
time.

Specific marketing communication vehicles, including
traditional tools, such as
advertising, sales promotion,
direct marketing, and personal selling, and newer
tools such as product placement, advergaming, and
Internet minimovies.

product line
A group of products that are
closely related to each other,
either in terms of how they
work or the customers they
serve.

property

from the ultimate consumers
so that they “pull” your products through the distribution
channels by actively seeking
them.

pure competition
A market structure with many
competitors selling virtually
identical products. Barriers to
entry are quite low.

pure goods
Products that do not include
any services.

pure services

The total number of product
lines and individual items
sold by a single firm.

The legal right of an owner
to exclude nonowners from
having control over a particular resource.

product placement

protectionism

The paid integration of
branded products into movies, television, and other
media.

National policies designed to
restrict international trade,
usually with the goal of protecting domestic businesses.

productivity

psychographic
segmentation

A marketing approach that
involves motivating distributors to heavily promote—or
“push”—a product to the
final consumers, usually
through heavy trade promotion and personal selling.

product mix

The basic relationship
between the production of
goods and services (output)
and the resources needed
to produce them (input)
calculated via the following
equation: output/input 5
productivity.

profit
The money that a business
earns in sales (or revenue),
minus expenses, such as
the cost of goods and the
cost of salaries. Revenue 2
Expenses 5 Profit (or Loss).

Dividing the market into
smaller groups based on consumer attitudes, interests,
values, and lifestyles.

public offering
A primary market issue in
which new securities are
offered to any investors
who are willing and able to
purchase them.

public relations (PR)

The gap between the cost
and the price of an item on a
per-product basis.

The ongoing effort to create
positive relationships with all
of a firm’s different “publics,” including customers,
employees, suppliers, the
community, the general public, and the government.

profitability ratios

publicity

Ratios that measure the rate
of return a firm is earning on various measures of
investment.

Unpaid stories in the media
that influence perceptions
about a company or its
products.

promotion

pull strategy

Marketing communication
designed to influence

A marketing approach that
involves creating demand

profit margin

Products that do not include
any goods.

push strategy

quality level
How well a product performs
its core functions.

quality of life
The overall sense of wellbeing experienced by either
an individual or a group.

quotas
Limitations on the amount
of specific products that may
be imported from certain
countries during a given
time period.

radio frequency
identification (RFID)
A technology that stores
information on small microchips that can transmit
the information when they
are within range of a special
reader.

recession
An economic downturn
marked by a decrease in the
GDP for two consecutive
quarters.

Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

recovery

risk-return trade-off

A period of rising economic
growth and employment.

The observation that
financial opportunities that
offer high rates of return are
generally riskier than opportunities that offer lower
rates of return.

registration statement
A long, complex document
that firms must file with
the SEC when they sell
securities through a public
offering.

reserve requirement
A rule set by the Fed, which
specifies the minimum
amount of reserves (or
funds) a bank must hold,
expressed as a percentage of
the bank’s deposits.

retailers
Distributors that sell products directly to the ultimate
users, typically in small
quantities, that are stored
and merchandized on the
premises.

retained earnings
The part of a firm’s net
income it reinvests.

revenue
Increases in a firm’s assets
that result from the sale of
goods, provision of services,
or other activities intended
to earn income.

revolving credit
agreement
A guaranteed line of credit
in which a bank makes a
binding commitment to
provide a business with
funds up to a specified
credit limit at any time
during the term of the
agreement.

robot
A reprogrammable machine
that is capable of manipulating materials, tools, parts,
and specialized devices in
order to perform a variety of
tasks.

S corporation
A form of corporation that
avoids double taxation by
having its income taxed as if it
were a partnership.

salaries
The pay that employees
receive over a fixed period, most often weekly or
monthly.

sale
A transaction in which the
title (legal ownership) to a
good passes from one party
to another in exchange for
a price.

sales promotion
Marketing activities designed to stimulate immediate sales activity through
specific short-term programs
aimed at either consumers
or distributors.

Sarbanes-Oxley Act

A state law that makes union
shops illegal within that
state’s borders.

Federal legislation passed
in 2002 that sets higher
ethical standards for
public corporations and
accounting firms. Key
provisions limit conflict-ofinterest issues and require
financial officers and CEOs
to certify the validity of
their financial statements.

risk

savings account

The degree of uncertainty
regarding the outcome of a
decision.

An interest-bearing account
holding funds not needed to
meet regular expenditures.

right-to-work law

savings and loan
association
A depository institution that
has traditionally obtained
most of its funds by accepting savings deposits, which
have been used primarily to
make mortgage loans.

scope of authority (for
an agent)
The extent to which an agent
has the authority to act for
and represent the principal.

SCORE (Service Corps
of Retired Executives)
An organization—affiliated
with the Small Business
Administration—that provides free, comprehensive
business counseling for
small business owners from
qualified volunteers.

secondary data
Existing data that marketers gather or purchase for a
research project.

secondary securities
market
The market where previously
issued securities are traded.

Securities Act of 1933
The first major federal law
regulating the securities
industry. It requires firms
issuing new stock in a public
offering to file a registration
statement with the SEC.

Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934
A federal law dealing with
securities regulation that
established the Securities
and Exchange Commission
to regulate and oversee the
securities industry.

Securities and
Exchange Commission
The federal agency with
primary responsibility for
regulating the securities
industry.

securities broker
A financial intermediary that
acts as an agent for investors
who want to buy and sell
financial securities. Brokers
earn commissions and fees
for the services they provide.

securities dealer
A financial intermediary that
participates directly in securities markets, buying and
selling stocks and other securities for its own account.

services
Intangible products.

servicescape
The environment in which
a customer and service provider interact.

sexual harassment
Workplace discrimination
against a person based on his
or her gender.

Six Sigma
An approach to quality
improvement characterized
by very ambitious quality
goals, extensive training of
employees, and a long-term
commitment to working on
quality-related issues.

skimming pricing
A new product pricing strategy that aims to maximize
profitability by offering new
products at a premium price.

Small Business
Administration (SBA)
An agency of the federal
government designed to
maintain and strengthen the
nation’s economy by aiding,
counseling, assisting, and
protecting the interests of
small businesses.

Small Business
Development Centers
(SBDCs)
Local offices—affiliated with
the Small Business Administration—that provide
Glossary

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

375

comprehensive management
assistance to current and
prospective small business
owners.

social audit
A systematic evaluation of
how well a firm is meeting
its ethics and social responsibility goals.

social responsibility
The obligation of a business
to contribute to society.

socialism
An economic system based
on the principle that the
government should own
and operate key enterprises
that directly affect public
welfare.

sociocultural
differences

speed-to-market
The rate at which a new
product moves from conception to commercialization.

sponsorship
A deep association between
a marketer and a partner
(usually a cultural or sporting event), which involves
promotion of the sponsor in
exchange for either payment
or the provision of goods.

spontaneous financing
Financing that arises during
the natural course of business without the need for
special arrangements.

spyware

Differences among cultures
in language, attitudes, and
values.

Software that is installed on
a computer without the user’s knowledge or permission
to track the user’s behavior.

software

staff managers

Programs that provide
instructions to a computer so
that it can perform a desired
task.

Managers who supervise
the functions that provide
advice and assistance to the
line departments.

sole proprietorship

stakeholders

A form of business ownership with a single owner who
usually actively manages the
company.

Any groups that have a stake—
or a personal interest—
in the performance and actions of an organization.

spam

Standard & Poor’s 500

Unsolicited email advertisements usually sent
to very large numbers of
recipients, many of whom
may have no interest in the
message.

A stock index based on
prices of 500 major U.S.
corporations in a variety
of industries and market
sectors.

span of control

The quality and quantity of
goods and services available
to a population.

Span of management; refers
to the number of people a
manager supervises.

specific performance
A remedy for breach of
contract in which the court
orders the party committing

376

the breach to do exactly what
the contract specifies.

standard of living

statement of cash flows
The financial statement that
identifies a firm’s sources and
uses of cash in a given accounting period.

statute of frauds
A requirement that certain
types of contracts must be
in writing in order to be
enforceable.

statute of limitations
The time period within
which a legal action must be
initiated.

performance in each key area
of the organization.

strategic planning
High-level, long-term planning that establishes a vision
for the company, defines
long-term objectives and
priorities, determines broad
action steps, and allocates
resources.

statutory close (or
closed) corporation

strategies

A corporation with a limited number of owners that
operates under simpler,
less formal rules than a C
corporation.

Action plans that help the
organization achieve its
goals by forging the best fit
between the firm and the
environment.

statutory law

strike

Law that is the result of
legislative action.

A work stoppage initiated by
a union.

stock (or securities)
exchange

structured interviews

An organized venue for
trading stocks and other
securities that meet its listing
requirements.

stock index
A statistic that tracks how
the prices of a specific set of
stocks have changed.

stockholder
An owner of a corporation.

store brands
Brands that the retailer both
produces and distributes
(also called private-label
brands).

strategic alliance
An agreement between
two or more firms to jointly
pursue a specific opportunity
without actually merging their
businesses. Strategic alliances
typically involve less formal,
less encompassing agreements than partnerships.

strategic goals
Concrete benchmarks that
managers can use to measure

An interviewing approach
that involves developing a
list of questions beforehand
and asking the same questions in the same order to
each candidate.

supply
The quantity of products
that producers are willing
to offer for sale at different
market prices.

supply chain
All organizations, processes,
and activities involved in
the flow of goods from the
raw materials to the final
consumer.

supply chain
management (SCM)
Planning and coordinating
the movement of products
along the supply chain, from
the raw materials to the final
consumers.

supply curve
The graphed relationship
between price and quantity
from a supplier standpoint.

Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

survey research
Marketing research that
requires the researcher to
interact with the research
subject.

sustainable
development
Doing business to meet the
needs of the current generation, without harming the
ability of future generations
to meet their needs.

SWOT analysis
A strategic planning tool that
helps management evaluate
an organization in terms of
internal strengths and weakness, and external opportunities and threats.

system software
Software that performs the
critical functions necessary
to operate the computer at
the most basic level.

tactical planning
More specific, shorterterm planning that applies
strategic plans to specific
functional areas.

target market
The group of people who are
most likely to buy a particular product.

tariffs
Taxes levied against imports.

technical skills
Expertise in a specific functional area or department.

telecommuting
Working remotely—most
often from home—and
connecting to the office via
phone lines and/or broadband networks.

Theory X and Theory Y
A motivation theory that
suggests that management
attitudes toward workers fall

into two opposing categories based on management
assumptions about worker
capabilities and values.

time value of money
The principle that a dollar
received today is worth more
than a dollar received in the
future.

title
Legal ownership.

Title VII
A portion of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964 that prohibits
discrimination in hiring, firing, compensation, apprenticeships, training, terms,
conditions, or privileges of
employment based on race,
color, religion, sex, or national origin for employers
with 15 or more workers.

top management
Managers who set the
overall direction of the
firm, articulating a vision,
establishing priorities, and
allocating time, money, and
other resources.

tort
A private wrong that results in
physical or mental harm to an
individual, or damage to that
person’s property.

total quality
management (TQM)
An approach to quality improvement that
calls for everyone within
an organization to take
responsibility for improving quality and emphasizes
the need for a long-term
commitment to continuous
improvement.

trade deficit

union shop

Shortfall that occurs when the
total value of a nation’s imports
is higher than the total value of
its exports.

An employment arrangement in which a firm can
hire nonunion workers, but
these workers must join the
union within a specified time
period to keep their jobs.

trade promotion
Marketing activities designed
to stimulate wholesalers and
retailers to push specific
products more aggressively
over the short term.

trade surplus

universal ethical
standards
Ethical norms that apply
to all people across a broad
spectrum of situations.

Overage that occurs when
the total value of a nation’s
exports is higher than the
total value of its imports.

utility

trademark

value

A mark, symbol, word, phrase,
or motto used to identify a
company’s goods.

The relationship between
the price of a good or a service and the benefits that it
offers its customers.

trading bloc
A group of countries that
have reduced or even eliminated tariffs, allowing for the
free flow of goods among the
member nations.

U.S. Treasury bills
(T-bills)
Short-term marketable IOUs
issued by the U.S. federal
government.

underwriting
An arrangement under
which an investment banker
agrees to purchase all shares
of a public offering at an
agreed-upon price.

unemployment rate
The percentage of people in
the labor force over age 16
who do not have jobs and are
actively seeking employment.

trade credit

Uniform Commercial
Code (UCC)

Spontaneous financing
granted by sellers when they
deliver goods and services to
customers without requiring
immediate payment.

A uniform act governing the
sale of goods, leases, warranties, transfer of funds, and
a variety of other businessrelated activities.

The ability of goods and
services to satisfy consumer
“wants.”

value chain
The network of relationships that channels the flow
of inputs, information, and
financial resources through
all of the processes directly
or indirectly involved in producing goods and services
and distributing them to
customers.

variable costs
Costs that vary directly with
the level of production.

venture capital firms
Companies that invest in
start-up businesses with high
growth potential in exchange
for a share of ownership.

vertical integration
Performance of processes
internally that were previously performed by other
organizations in a supply
chain.

vertical merger
A combination of firms at
different stages in the production of a good or service.
Glossary

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

377

vesting period

wages

whistle-blowers

A specified period of time
for which an employee must
work for an employer in order
to receive the full advantage
of certain retirement benefits.

The pay that employees
receive in exchange for the
number of hours or days that
they work.

Employees who report their
employer’s illegal or unethical behavior to either the
authorities or the media.

viral marketing

Websites that incorporate
interactive and collaborative
features to create a richer,
more interesting, and more
useful experience for their
users.

An Internet marketing
strategy that tries to involve
customers and others not
employed by the seller in
activities that help promote
the product.

voluntary export
restraints (VERs)
Limitations on the amount
of specific products that one
nation will export to another
nation.

378

Web 2.0

wheel of retailing
A classic distribution theory that suggests that retail
firms and retail categories
become more upscale
as they go through their
life cycles.

wholesalers
Distributors that buy products from producers and sell
them to other businesses
or nonfinal users such as
hospitals, nonprofits, and the
government.

World Bank
An international cooperative
of 189 member countries,
working together to reduce
poverty in the developing
world.

World Trade
Organization (WTO)
A permanent global
institution to promote
international trade and to
settle international trade
disputes.

World Wide Web
The service that allows computer users to easily access
and share information on the
Internet in the form of text,
graphics, video, apps, and
animation.

worm
Malicious computer software
that, unlike viruses, can
spread on its own without
being attached to other files.

Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

INDEX
A
ABC (activity-based costing),
145
Abercrombie & Fitch, 203
Aberdeen Group, 325
absolute advantage, 42
accessory equipment, 211
accountant career, 146
accidental inventions, 124
accountants roles, 129–130
government accountants,
130
management accountants,
130
public accountants, 129
accountants, types of,
129–130
accounting, 128–146. See also
financial statements
budgeting, 141–143
defined, 128
ethics in, 132–134
financial, 130–131
managerial accounting,
143–145
types of accountants,
129–130
users of, 128–129
accounting equation, 132
accounting users, 128–129
creditors, 129
employees, 129
government agencies, 129
managers, 128
stockholders, 128
suppliers, 129
accounts receivable, 132,
164–165
accredited investors, 181
accrual-basis accounting, 135
accumulated depreciation,
133
acquiring firm, 102
acquisition, 102–103
acquisitions, corporate,
102–103
active listening, 79–80
active voice, 83
activity-based costing (ABC),
145
activity ratios. See asset
management ratios
actual value in marketing, 194

actual product, 210
ad age marketer, 192
Adams, J. Stacy, 257
adverse opinion, 139
advertising on internet, 296
administrative expenses, 136
Adobe, 259
advergaming, 225
adverse auditor opinion, 139
advertising, 221, 226
on the Internet, 223–224,
297–298
affirmative action, 284
Affordable Care Act, 121
age bias, 83
agents and brokers, 240
agents, as wholesalers, 239,
240
aging population, 14
agriculture market, 28
Aichi Steel shut, 165
AIG insurance, 22, 62, 66
Airbnb, 7, 297
AllBusiness.com, 124
Allen, Paul, 113
Allergan, 131
Amazon, 10, 40, 45, 115,
118, 187, 194–195,
214, 238, 240, 242,
245, 254, 288, 292
Amazon Prime, 191
Amazon Prime Air, 238
Amazon Web Services
(AWS), 293
American customer satisfaction index, 195
American Dream, 33
American Idol, 225
American Marketing
Association, 190
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, 21
Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990, 284
Anders, Jason, 292
Andreessen, Marc, 114
angel investors, 118–119, 155
Apple, 5, 7, 10–11, 40,
45, 67, 94, 99–100,
115–116, 135, 157,
176, 182, 185, 187,
192, 194, 204, 208,
215, 218, 224, 245,
247–249, 268, 286,

292, 297, 300, 309,
315, 318
Anheuser-Busch, 203
Anything Left-Handed, 120
Apple, 10, 67, 214, 286
and marketing, 194, 207
ownership utility of, 191
skimming pricing of, 247
Apple Angst, 67
applications software, 288
apprenticeships, 278
appraisal goofs, 279
apprentice ship programs, 278
Arch Coal, 159
Armstrong, Lance, 79
Arthur Anderson, 66
articles of incorporation, 93
Ash, Mary Kay, 115
ask price, 183
assessing employee performance, 279
asset management ratios, 152
asset-backed commercial
paper, 158
assets, 131
acquiring and managing,
163–165
association of small business
development centers,
107
AstraZeneca, 131
As You Sow, 73
A to Z Wineworks, 69
attention span, 4
augmented product, 210
autocratic leaders, 267
auto industry bailout, 21, 62
automation, 318
average collection period,
152
Avon Corporation, 71
Avon Walk for Breast
Cancer, 193

B
baby boomers, retirements
of, 4, 11, 272
background checks, 277–278
bailouts by the federal government, 9, 62, 173
Bailey, Edward P., 85
balance of payments, 43
balance of payments deficit, 43

balance of payments surplus,
43
balance of trade, 43–44
balance sheet, 132
assets, 132
example of, 132
liabilities, 132–133
McDonald’s corporation,
133
owners’ (or stockholders’)
equity, 133–134
Baldrige National Quality
Program, 321–322
Banana Republic, 214
bank failures, 173
Banking Act (1933), 174
Bank of America, 200
Banks, Steven, 293
Barger, David, 119
Barrett, Michael, 302
B2B (business-to-business)
e-commerce, 295–299
marketers, 195, 196
B2C (business-to-consumer)
e-commerce, 295–296
marketers, 194–195
B-Corps, 68
Bear Stearns, 20, 22
Batman and Frozen, 215
beach junket, 62
Bean, Chuck, 7
Beck, Julie, 308
behavioral segmentation, 197
benefit corporations, 68
accounting practices of,
139
benefits, 280–283
Bell, Taco, 317
benefits, 280
Berkshire Hathaway, 158, 178
Bernanke, Ben, 24
Bernbach, Bill, 220
Best Companies to Work
For, 258
Best Global Brands, 214
B2G (business-togovernment)
e-commerce, 295
better listening tips, 80
Bezos, Jeff, 115
bias, 82
bias in communications,
82–83
bid/ask spread, 183
Index

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

379

bid price, 183
bid price of stock, 183
Bidwell, Matthew, 276
big ideas, 222
Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation, 63
Billionaire Warren Buffett’s
company, 158
Birch, David, 120
Blackford, Chris, 322
black hat hackers, 301
Blades, Michael, 322
BlendTec, 223
Bloch, Ethan, 170
block paragraphs, 86
Bloomingdale’s, 203
board of directors role of,
99–100
Board of Governors, 23, 25
board of directors, 99–100
body language barriers, 77.
See also communi­
cation barriers
Boeing aerospace company,
278
Boeing Military Aircraft,
278
Bogusky, Alex, 223
Bond, James, 224
bonds, 177
corporate, 158
Bono (musician and
humanitarian), 39
“bottom line” of a financial
statement, 136
bottom-up budgeting, 142
boosting volume, 245
creating prestige, 247
everyday low pricing
(EDLP), 245–246
high/low pricing, 246
loss-leader pricing,
246–247
matching the competition,
247
penetration pricing, 245
bottom-up/participatory
budgeting, 142
Bowie Bonds, 184
Bowie, David, 184
Braiker, Brian, 89
Braintree, 298
branded governments, 4
brand equity, 214
brand extensions, 215
branding, 214–216
brand manager, 207
brand name, 214–215
brands, 211
Branson, Richard, 257
breakeven analysis, 248–250

380

Brexit, 55
Bribery in business, 8
and international business,
49, 71–72
Brighter Naming, 214
Brazilian oil company, 177
breakeven analysis, 248
Brexit, 55
bribery, 49
BRIC countries, 40
Brin, Sergey, 113
British exit from European
Union (EU), 55
British Petroleum (BP), 156,
323
British legal and economic
system, 9
broadband and smartphone
internet access, 289
broadband Internet
connection, 289
brokers, 183–184
Brooks, Bill, 230
budgetary slack, 142
budget deficit, 22
budget surplus, 22
budgetary slack, 142
budgeted balance sheet, 142,
154
budgeted income statement,
142, 154
budgeting, 141
and promotions, 233
uses of, 155
Budweiser, 222
Buffett, Warren, 185
building profitable customer
connections, 190
the customer, 194–195
customer behavior,
201–202
marketing research,
202–205
marketing strategy,
195–201
marketing, 190–194
social responsibility and
technology, 205–206
bulleted lists in communications, 85
bulleted lists, 86–87
Bureau of the Census, 106
Burger King, 226
Burton website, 12
Bush,George W., 23
business at breakneck speed,
2–4
basics, 5–6
environment, 8–16
history of, 6–7
production factors, 7–8

nonprofits and economy, 7
and personal, 16
business buyer behavior, 202
business communication, 76
excellent communication
skills, 76–77
high-impact messages,
84–87
nonverbal communication,
78–80
the right channel, 80
the right words, 80–83
verbal presentations,
87–90
business cycle, 34
contraction, 34
expansion, 34
recovery, 34
business economist, 37
business environment, 8
business ethics, 60
business ethics and social
responsibility, 58
close relationship, 58–60
in global arena, 71–73
monitoring, 73
multiple touchpoints, 61–64
not an oxymoron, 60–61
business format franchises,
106
business formation, 92
business ownership
options, 92–95
corporations, 98–103
franchising, 106–110
limited liability company,
104–106
partnerships, 96–98
sole proprietorships, 95–96
business intelligence
systems, 294
business marketers (B2B),
196
business plan, for small
businesses, 122
business market segmentation, 197
customer-based, 197
geographic, 197
product-use–based, 197
business plan elements, 123
business product categories,
211
accessory equipment, 211
business services, 211
component parts and processed materials, 211
installations, 211
maintenance/repair/operating products, 211
raw materials, 211

business products, 210
business services, 211
business software alliance,
304
business success tools, 122
access SBA Resources,
123
develop a business plan,
123
educate yourself, 122–123
gain experience, 122
learn from others, 122
business technology, 11
business to-consumer (B2C),
295
e-commerce, 295–299
marketers, 196–197
business, 5
business-to-business (B2B),
295
e-commerce, 295,
299–300
marketers, 196–197
selling, 14
business-to-government
(B2G)
e-commerce, 295
BusinessWeek, 214
buybacks of stock, 164
buy-and-hold strategy, 186
buying and holding securities, 186–187
buzz marketing, 226
bylaws, corporate, 99

C
CAD/CAM (computer-aided
design/computeraided manufacturing), 318
CAD (computer-aided
design), 318
CAE (computer-aided
engineering), 318
CAM (computer-aided
manufacturing), 319
Candler, Asa, 255
CAN-SPAM Act (Controlling the Assault
of Non-Solicited
Pornography and
Marketing Act), 301
Cafe X, 318
cafeteria-style benefits, 281
Camaro, Chevy, 196
cannibalization, 214
capital expenditure budget,
142
capital gains, 176
capital structure, 159

Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

capital, 8
capital budgeting, 165
accounting, 166–167
evaluation, 165
net present value, 167
risk-return trade-off
revisited, 167
capital expenditure budget,
142
capital gains or losses, 176
capitalism, 26
capital structure, 159–163
carbon footprint, 70
Carcelle, Ives, 323
CareOne, 224
carve-out, 103
cash, management of,
163–164
cash and carry wholesalers,
240
cash budget, 142, 154
cash equivalent, 151, 163
category killer retail stores,
241
cashless economy, 139
cause-related marketing, 68
C2C (consumer-to-consumer)
e-commerce, 295
C corporation, 98
advantages of, 100
board of directors role,
99–100
corporate restructuring,
102–103
corporation types, 102
disadvantages of, 100–102
formation of, 99
ownership of, 99
cell phones and economic
growth, 41–42
etiquette for, 85
spam on, 297
cellular layout, 311
Center for Venture Research, 119
centralization, 264
century bonds, 177
certificate of deposit (CD),
166
certified fraud examiners,
130
certified management
accountants, 130
certified public accountant,
130
Challenger, James, 277
Chan, Priscilla, 100
Chan Zuckerberg Initiative
(CZI), 100
chaos, promotion in, 220
channel intermediaries, 237

channel of distribution, 236
channels of communication,
83–84
Character Counts, 60
charitable foundations, 100
CHG Healthcare, 280
chief executive officer
(CEO), 100
worries of, 13
China aging population in,
14
business environment
of, 9
economic growth of,
41–42
economic reforms of, 33
and Nike marketing, 199
pollution, war on, 72
social responsibility for
products from, 45–46
Chipotle, 156
Chapstick, 196
Chen, Jenn, 170
Chick-fil-A, 107
China’s Skyscraper Curse,
174
Churchill, Winston, 86
Civil Rights Act of 1964, 283
CIM (computer-integrated
manufacturing),319
claim on assets, right of, 177
Clarke, Andrew, 131
Clayton Antitrust Act (1914),
28
closed-end fund, 179
closing the sale, 232
clothing company founder,
126
cloud computing, 292–293
cloud-based software, 89
Cobranding, 215
coca-cola, 13
cocaine energy drink, 212
code of ethics, 64
Code of Vendor Conduct, 73
cognitive dissonance, 202
Colgate-Palmolive, 194
color as marketing tool, 198
Colvin, Geoff, 12
commercial banks, 23, 171
Commercial Finance
Association, 157
commercial paper, 157
common markets, 53
common stock, 176
capital gains, 176
preemptive right, 176–177
residual claim right, 177
right to dividends, 176
voting rights, 176
communication, 76

communication barriers,
77–78
communication channels,
80–81
communism, 31
Communist Manifesto, 31
community, social responsibility toward, 68–69
connection economy, the, 7
coordination, 7
exchange of ideas, 7
permission, 7
trust, 7
comparative advantage, 42
comparative financial statements, 141
compensation, 280
competition degrees, 27
monopolistic competition, 28
monopoly, 28–29
oligopoly, 28
pure competition, 27
competitive advantage, 42
competitive edge, 278–279
competitive environment,
the, 10
complex value chains, 308
complexity of new products,
218
component parts, 211
compressed workweek, 281
computer viruses, 300
computer-aided design
(CAD), 288, 318
computer-aided design/
computer-aided
manufacturing (CAD/
CAM), 318
computer-aided engineering
(CAE), 318
computer-aided manufacturing (CAM), 319
computer-integrated
manufacturing
(CIM), 319
computer viruses, 297
conceptual skills, 254–255
confidence of entrepreneurs,
116
conglomerate merger, 103
connection economy, 7
consultative selling, 232
consumer behavior, 201–202
consumer decision-making
process, 201
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, 163
consumerism, 65–66
consumer marketers (B2C),
196

consumer market segmentation, 196–197
behavioral, 197
demographic, 196
geographic, 196
psychographic, 196
consumer markets vs business markets, 196
consumer price index (CPI),
35
consumer product categories, 211
convenience products, 211
shopping products, 211
specialty products, 211
unsought products, 211
consumer products, 210
consumer promotion, 228
coupons, 228–229
displays, 230
premiums, 228
promotional products, 228
rebates, 230
samples, 228
consumer rights, 65–66
consumers
behavior of, 200–201
pricing perceptions,
249–250
promotion, power of,
220–221
responsibility to, 65–66
consumer-to-consumer
(C2C) e-commerce,
295
consumerism, 65
contingency planning
paradigm, 261
contingency planning, 260
contingent workers, 277
continuous innovation, 217
contracts, enforceable, 9
Controlling the Assault
of Non-Solicited
Pornography and
Marketing Act (CANSPAM Act), 301
convenience products, 211
convenience stores, 241
controlling management,
267
controlling, 252
conversion ratio, 178
convertible securities, 178
Cook, Tim, 66, 100
copyright laws, 304
core benefit, 210
corporate black sheep, 273
the problem, 273–274
the solution, 274
corporate bonds, 159
Index

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

381

corporate bylaws, 99
corporate philanthropy, 68
corporate responsibility, 69
corporation, 93
C corporations, 98–102
double taxation of, 101
nonprofit, 102
restructuring of, 102–103
S Corporations, 102
statutory close corporations, 102
stock ownership in, 99
corruption, 71
cost-based pricing, 249
Costco, 239, 246
costs
of franchising, 108
of health insurance, 121
managerial accounting,
144
costs of goods manufactured,
135
costs of goods sold, 135
countertrade, 44
coupon rate, 178
coupons, 228
covenant, 159
covenants on loans, 159
cowboy culture, 125
CPA firm, 138–139
CPI (consumer price index),
35
creativity and entrepreneurship, 122
credit cards, as start-up
funding, 122
creditors, accounting results
and, 129
creating and communicating
value, 208
innovation and product
life cycle, 216–220
meaningful message,
221–223
product differentiation and planning,
211–216
product, 208–211
promotion, 220–221
promotional mix, 223–233
credit unions, 171–172
Cringely, Robert, 246
critical path method (CPM),
313–314
critical thinking, value of,
254
crowdfunding, 118
cultural barriers, 78. See also
communication barriers
cumulative feature, 177

382

current assets, 163
cash management,
163–164
managing accounts receivable, 164–165
managing inventories, 165
current liabilities, 132
current ratio, 152
current yield, 178
customer-based segmentation, 197
customer benefit package,
310
customer benefits, 213
customer benefits, and product features, 213
customer departmentalization, 266
customers
behavior of, 201–202
loyalty of, 195
marketing to, 194–195
service by small businesses, 120
social responsibility toward, 64–66
customer loyalty, 195
customer relationship management (CRM), 194
full partnerships, 194
limited relationships, 194
value, 194
customer satisfaction,
194–195
customer service, 244
customer-based segmentation, 197
cybermediary, 298
cyclical unemployment, 34
czech republic, 32

D
Darwin, Charles, 2
data, 293
data mining, 294
data warehouse, 294
David Weekly Homes, 258
Dayal, Ashvin, 72
DeBeers ads, 223
databases, 293
debt ceiling, 22–23
debt financing, 159
debt ratio. See debt-to-asset
ratio
Decca Records, 255
debt-to-asset ratio, 153
decision-making ability, 255
decision support systems
(DSS), 294
deflation, 35

degree of centralization, 264
Delaware, 99
deleveraging, 162
deliveries with drones, 238,
323
Dell, Michael, 113, 223
Dell computers, 221, 236
demand, 31
demand curve, 29
demand-based pricing, 249
Deming chain reaction, 319
Deming, W. Edwards, 319
Deming Chain Reaction,
319, 321
Denny’s, 191
democratic leaders, 267
demographic segmentation,
196
departmentalization, 264
customer, 264
functional, 264
geographical, 264
process, 265
product, 264
department stores, 241
depository institutions, 171
depression, 34
Desai, Mihir, 47
differentiation and planning
of products, 212–216
Dietzen, Scott, 294
diffusion, 218
digital native generation. See
Generation Z
digital natives, 4
direct channel, 236
direct channels of distribution, 236–237
direct costs, 145
direct investment, 47
foreign, 47
direct response retailing, 242
direct selling, 243
discontinuous innovation,
216–217
discount brokers, 183
discount rate, 167
discount rate changes, 25
discount stores, 241
discrimination against
women, 272–273
disinflation, 35
Disney, Walt, 115–116
Disney World, 299
displays as promotions, 230
distribution and pricing,
236–239
distributors, 237–239
physical distribution,
242–245
price setting, 247–250

pricing strategies, 245–247
retailers, 239–243
wholesalers, 239–240
distribution strategy, 236
distributors, 237–238
distributorships, 106
DiversityFran, 107
divestitures, 103
dividends, 176–177
preferred stock, 176
and retained earnings, 158
DJIA (Dow Jones Industrial
Average), 187
Dodd-Frank Act (2010),
162, 176
dollars, exchange rate with
euros, 44
domestic corporations, 101
double taxation of corporations, 101
Doulen, Dan, 105
Dodge v. Ford Motor Co., 149
“Doing Business” report, 48
the Dow, 187
Dow Jones Industrial
Average (DJIA), 187
drones
for deliveries, 238, 323
oil rig inspections, 323
drop shippers, 240
Drucker, Peter F., 8, 212,
266, 307
Dunkin’ Donuts, 107
durable goods, 308
Düsseldorf airport, 3
Dutch health club, 227
dynamic delivery, 90
dynamically continuous
innovation, 217

E
earnings before interest and
taxes (EBIT), 161
earnings per share (EPS),
153
Ebola outbreak (2014), 16
Eck-Witty corporation, 161
eco-friendly companies,
204
e-commerce, 12, 115, 118,
240, 242, 295–299,
322
e-commerce and IT, 295
in B2C Market, 295–298
in B2B Market, 298
economic differences,
international, 48
economic environment,
the, 9
economic system, 26

Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

economics, 18
capitalism, 26–30
economy management,
21–26
evaluating performance,
33–36
mixed economies, 31–32
navigating a crisis, 18–21
planned economies, 30–31
economics system, 27
economies, 19
emerging, 41
and small businesses,
124–125
effectiveness, 307
efficiency, 307–308
economic turmoil, 9
economy, 18
Ed Rensi, 318
effectiveness, 307
efficiency, 306
Egan, Sophie, 13, 308
electronic bill presentment
and payment, 298
electronic communications
networks (ECNs), 183
email, 80
e-marketplaces, 298
embargo, 51
emerging economies, 40–41
Emerson, Bill, 259
emissions, tracking, 70
emotional big ideas, 222
employees
accounting uses by, 129
compensation of, 280
older, 272
performance of, 279–280
recruiting, 275–276
responsibility to, 64
satisfaction of, 193
and social media, 82
social responsibility to, 64
tattoos on, 283
younger, 272
employment
federal government, 33
lawsuits related to, 272,
273, 278, 283
emerging promotional tools,
223
advergaming, 225–226
buzz marketing, 226–227
internet advertising, 223
native advertising, 224
product placement,
224–225
social media, 223
sponsorships, 227
Emerson, Bill, 259
employment level, 33–34

energy, personal, 262
enforceable contracts, 9
Enron fiasco, 15
enterprise resource planning
(ERP), 316
entrepreneur, the, 114
eccentric entrepreneurs,
114
entrepreneurial characteristics, 115
entrepreneurial mindset,
115
entrepreneurial characteristics, 115–116
confidence, 116
energy, 116
self-reliance, 115–116
tolerance of failure, 116
tolerance of uncertainty,
116
vision, 115
entrepreneurs, 5
entrepreneurship, 8
entrepreneurship era, 6–7
entrepreneurship around the
world, 125
cultural/political environment, 125
opportunity costs, 125
per capita income, 125
entrepreneurship era, the, 6
environmental scanning, 200
EPS (earnings per share),
152
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
(EEOC), 283
Equal Pay Act of 1963, 283
equilibrium quantity, 30
equilibrium price, 30–31
equity financing, 161
equity theory, 257
e-tailing, 242
ethics
in accounting, 132
dilemmas of, 60, 74
and the individual, 61
and information technology, 295–299
marketing to the poor, 72
monitoring, 73
and the organization, 62
universal standards of,
59–60
ethics officers, 74
ethical and legal issues, 303
ethical dilemmas, 60
ethical organization, 63–64
Ethics Resource Center
(ERC), 62–63
ethnicity bias, 82

ethnic markets, targeting, 14
European Union (EU), 53
euros, exchange rate with
dollars, 44
event marketing, 192
everyday low pricing
(EDLP), 245
exchange rates, 44
excellent communicators, 76
excellent email tips, 87
exchange rates, 43–44
exchange traded funds
(ETF), 180
Excite, 254
exclusive distribution,
241–242
executive compensation,
133, 272
expectancy theory, 257
expenses, 135–136
federal government, 26
expert system (ES), 295
explicit costs. See out-ofpocket costs
exploiting the environment,
309
exporting, 45
external audits, 138
external locus of control,
116
external recruitment, 275
extranets, 291
extravagant human services,
32
eye contact and communication, 78

F
F/A-18 fighter plane flight
simulator, 278
face value, 177
Facebook, 5, 10, 61, 66, 80,
82, 85, 100, 114–115,
119, 172, 187, 201,
203, 206, 216, 223–
224, 226–227, 254,
259, 289, 291–292,
296–298
face-to-face meetings, 81
facial expressions and
communication, 78
facility layout, 310–311
facility location, 312
factor, 156
factors of production, 8
and international trade, 42
failure
of entrepreneurs,
tolerance of, 116
of products, 212

of savings and loan
associations, 172
of small businesses,
120–121
fair competition, right of, 28
Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938, 283
fake news, 79
Family and Medical Leave
Act of 1993, 284
Fannie Mae, 21
Fargo, Wells, 296
fashionable clothing, 263
Fast Company, 274
fast fashion, 241
Feather, William, 177
“the Fed”, 21, 23–26, 62,
174, 176
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), 238
federal debt, 22
Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC),
25, 174
Federal Family and Medical
Leave Act, 281
federal government. See
government
federal government revenue
and expenses, 23
Federal Open Market
Committee, 25
the Federal Reserve, 9, 19,
21, 23–25, 35, 156,
172, 174–176
Federal Reserve Act (1913),
174
Federal Reserve Banks, 23
Federal Reserve Board, 156
Federal Reserve System (the
Fed), 10, 19, 21, 171
monetary policy of, 26–27
Federal Trade Commission
(FTC), 9, 110
feedback to employees, 279
fiduciary duty, 149
field of membership for
credit unions, 170
finance, 149
assets, acquiring and
managing, 163–165
capital budgeting,
165–167
decisions, motivators of,
148–151
defined, 149
funding options, 155–158
leverage and capital
structure, 158–163
needs of, identifying,
151–155
Index

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

383

finance quote for a stock, 188
financial accounting,
130–132
ethics, 132
role of, 130–131
Financial Accounting
Foundation, 131
Financial Accounting
Standards Board
(FASB), 131
financial analyst, 168
financial and managerial accounting comparison,
144
financial budgets, 142
financial capital, 148
financial diversification, 178
financial intermediaries, 171
financial leverage, 152
financial managers
accounting uses by, 128
and the budgeting process, 154–155
fiduciary duty of, 149
and risk, 150–151
and shareholder value,
150–151
financial markets, 170
defined, 171
financial securities, 176
investments, tracking,
184–185
keeping tabs on market,
187
personal investing,
182–187
regulating, 173–176
role and their key players,
170–173
financial needs identification, 151
budgeted financial statements and cash
budget, 153–154
planning tools, 153
ratio analysis, 151–153
financial ratio analysis, 151
financial returns, 150
Financial Services Modernization Act (1999),
175
Financial Stability Oversight
Council, 163, 176
Financial Standards Accounting Board
(FSAB), 130
and smartphones, 137
financial statements, 132
balance sheet, 132
income statement,
134–135

384

interpreting, 138–141
pro forma, 154–155
statement of cash flows,
136–138
statement of retained
earnings, 138
stockholders’ equity statement, 138
financing activities, 137
from stockholders,
159–160
finding funds, 155–159
long-term funds, 158–159
short-term financing,
155–158
firewalls, 302
first-line (or supervisory)
management, 254
Fiscal Cliff, 22–23
fiscal policy, 22
Fitness First, 227
fixed costs, 145
fixed margin pricing,
249–250
fixed position layout, 311
Fleischmann, Isaac, 116
flexible budget, 143
flextime, 281
footnotes to financial
statements, 140
Forbes, 113
Ford, Henry, 115, 193
Ford Motor Company, 223
foreclosures, 20
foreign corporations, 101
Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act, 71
foreign direct investment, 47
foreign franchising, 46
foreign licensing, 45
foreign markets. See world
marketplace
foreign outsourcing, 45
forms of business ownership,
92–95
corporations, 93–96,
97–103
limited liability companies, 94–95, 104–106
partnerships, 93, 95–98
sole proprietorship, 92–96
total number of, 94
form utility, 191
Fortune, 11, 50
franchise, 106
franchise agreement, 109
franchise disclosure document (FDD), 110
franchisee, 106
franchise store manager,
111

franchising, 106–110
advantages of, 107–108
agreements, entering into,
109–110
costs of, 108
disadvantages of, 108–109
foreign, 46–47, 50,
106–107
sign a franchise agreement, 109–110
in today’s economy,
106–107
versus other forms
of business, 105,
121–122
women and minorities in,
107
franchising agreements,
109–110
franchisor, 46, 106
fraud in accounting, 130. See
also ethics
Freddie Mac, 21
free market system, 26, 29
demand, 29–30
equilibrium price, 30
supply, 29
free trade, 15
free-rein leaders, 267
frictional unemployment, 34
Fripp, Patricia, 88
Frito-Lay, 222
front-line managers, 255
Fry, Art, 124
FSAB (Financial Standards
Accounting Board),
130
FTSE 100, 187
full-service broker, 183
full-service merchant wholesalers, 239
fun and games, 3
functional departmentalization, 266
fundamental rights of
capitalism, 27
fundamental trade-off, 151
funding options for small
businesses, 117
angel investors, 118–119
crowdfunding, 118
loans, 118
long-term financing,
158–159
personal resources,
117–118
short-term financing,
155–157
for small businesses,
117–120, 155
venture capital, 119

G
GAAT (generally accepted
accounting principles), 130–131, 134
GameStop, 165
Gap, Inc., 214, 243–244
Code of Vendor Conduct,
73
Gates, Bill, 113
gender bias, 82
GATT (General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade),
51
GDP (gross domestic
product), 34, 39
GE (General Electric), 101
GEM (Global Entrepreneur­
ship Monitor), 125
gender bias, 81–82
General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade
(GATT), 51
General Electric (GE), 101
general mills, 13
general partnerships, 93,
96–97
advantages of, 97
disadvantages of, 97–98
formation of, 96–97
limited, 98
generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP), 130
General Mills, 13
general partnerships, 92,
96–97
Generation Y, 112
Generation Z, 4
geographical departmentalization, 264
geographic segmentation,
196–197
gestures and communication, 78–79
ghoulish fake eyeballs, 45
Gillette, 246
Giving USA Foundation, 68
Glass-Steagall Act, 174–175
Global Brand Champions,
10
global business’s slowing
momentum, 40
global competition, 308
global economic crisis,
19–20
global entrepreneurship
monitor (GEM), 125
global environment, 15–16
globalization. See world
marketplace

Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

global marketing environment, 201
global marketing mix,
199–200
global trade, 43–44
countertrade, 44
balance of payments, 43
balance of trade, 43
exchange rates, 43–44
Global Village, 203
Godin, Seth, 7, 198
gofundme.com, 118
goods, 308
goods vs services, 210
Google, 13, 104, 214
Google Presentations
software, 89
government
accounting results and, 131
employment with, 33
government accountants,
130
Graham, Paul, 114
Gramm-Bliley-Leach Act,
175
grammar mistakes, 85
graphical user interface
(GUI), 288
Great Depression in 1930s,
34–35
greater financial success, 113
Great Recession, 21–22, 172
green marketing, 70, 205
green practices, 324–325
Greenspan, Alan, 23
Grimmelmann, James, 295
gross domestic product
(GDP), 33
gross profit, 136
growth, investing for, 186
guerrilla marketing, 226

H
hackers, 302
Halo effect, 279
handling payments electronically, 298
hardware, 287
Harvard Business Review,
73, 272
Hazlitt, Henry, 22
headings, 86
health insurance, costs of,
121
Heinz Ketchup segmentation, 197
Helix roller coaster, 3
Henry Ford’s assembly line, 6
Hershey, Milton, 212
Hewlett-Packard, 48

high flyers, 62
high-impact messages, 84–87
right tone, strike the, 85
grammar goofs, avoid,
85–86
block paragraphs, use, 86
headings and bulleted
lists, use, 86–87
high/low pricing, 246
highly leveraged firms, 162
Hilton, Paris, 192
Hispanic customers, 13
H&M, 214
Hoban, Russell, 76
Hollows, Nicholas, 94
Homan, Dzana, 107
Home Depot, 313
Homeland Security, 16
Hong Kong, business
environment of, 16
Hope, Bob, 129
horizontal analysis, 141
horizontal merger, 103
hostile takeover, 102
Hot Topic, 257
Hottovy, R. J., 317
House of Blues, The, 256
human resource (HR)
management, 270
challenges, 271–273
legal issues, 283
managers, 273–274
planning, 274–283
human resource planning,
274
human resources, 8
human resources manager,
285
human skills, 254
humor in presentations, 90
Hungary, inflation in, 35
Huntington, Eileen, 107
Hurricane Katrina (2005), 16
Hurricane Sandy (2012), 16
hybrid departmentalization,
265
hyperinflation, 35
Hypertext Markup Language
(HTML), 289
Hyundai Motor Company,
47, 222

I
IBM, 214
idea marketing, 193
Igloo Software Intranet, 290
IKEA, 309
IMF (International Monetary
Fund), 51–52 refugees, research on, 55

immediate predecessors, 314
Immigration Reform and
Control Act of 1986,
284
implicit costs, 144
importing, 45
income statement, 134–136
expenses, 135–136
McDonald’s, 136
net income, 136
revenue, 134–135
Independent Auditor’s
Report, 138
independent wholesaling
businesses, 239
India
business environment
of, 17
economic growth of,
41–42
the Indian Ocean tsunami,
16
indiegogo.com, 118
indirect costs, 145
Indonesian nightclub terrorist attack (2002), 16
Industrial Revolution, the, 6
inflation, 35
information, 293
information technology (IT),
286–304
and decision making, 293
data and information,
293
expert systems, 294–295
good information
characteristics, 293
using IT to improve
decision making, 294
information technology
support specialist,
304
infrastructure, 48
initial public offering (IPO),
181
innovation, 216
in-person presentations, 81
inside intelligence, 143–145
assigning costs to
products, 145
cost concepts, 144–145
insider trading, 175
installations, 211
instant skills, 2–3
institutional investors, 99,
173
intangible assets, 132
integrated marketing
communication, 220
intellectual property, 304
intensive distribution, 241

intercultural communication, 78
internal auditors, 130
internal locus of control, 116
internal recruitment, 275
internal revenue service
(IRS), 129
international ethics standards boards for
accountants (IESBA),
140
International Franchising
Association (IFA),
107
international listening association website, 80
international monetary fund
(IMF), 52
international sports marketing manager, 56
international trade barriers,
47–51
economic differences, 48
political and legal differences, 48–50
sociocultural differences,
47–48
international trade restrictions, 50–51
embargo, 51
quotas, 50
tariffs, 50
voluntary export restraints
(VERs), 50–51
internet and the world wide
web, 288–289
internet, 288
Internet2 (I2), 289
interviews, 276
intranets, 291
inventions, accidental, 124
inventories, 312
inventory control, 244,
312–313
additional holding costs,
313
increased risk, 313
protection against stockouts and lost sales,
312
reduced ordering costs, 312
smoother production
schedules, 312
tied-up funds, 313
inventory turnover ratio, 152
investing activities, 137
investing in securities, strategies, 185
buying and holding, 186
investing for growth, 186
investing for income, 185
Index

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

385

investment banks, 173
iPod, 10–11, 116, 205, 218,
247
IRS (Internal Revenue
Service), 129
ISO 14000, 325
ISO 9000 certification, 322
IT department role, 291

J
Jackson, Alphonso Roy, 311
Jackson, Lisa, 309
Jackson, Michael, 4
Jamba Juice, 191
Jantsch, John, 191
Janus Capital Group, 180
Japanese automakers, 13
JetBlue, 245
jetBlue.com, 45
Jiao Songhui, 318
job analysis, 274
job description, 274
job enrichment, 256
autonomy, 257
feedback, 257
skill variety, 256
task identity, 257
job offers, 276
job sharing, 282
job simulations, 278
job specifications, 274
Jobs, Steve, 115, 322
Johnson & Johnson Credo, 64
joint ventures, 47
Jordan, Michael, 199
just-in-time (JIT) delivery, 323
just-in-time (JIT) production,
324

K
Karen Hopkinson Pflug, 320
Karp, David, 114
Kathman, David, 156
Kazoo & Company, 120
keeping tabs on market, 187
stock indices, 187
tracking the performance,
187
Kelleher, Herb, 270
Kellogg, John Harvey, 114
Kellogg’s, 41
Kelly, Gary, 270
Kennedy, John F., 65
key budget components,
142–143
KFC-YUM! brands, 107
kickstarter.com, 118
Kimley-Horn, 259
Kimpton, 259

386

Knapp, David, 41
Knight, Phil, 113
Kraft, 66
Kroc, Ray, 116
Kroger supermarkets, 324

L
Lady Gaga’s YouTube, 224
Lane, Robert, 63
language barriers, 77. See
also communication
barriers
Las Vegas, marketing by, 192
Lavigne, Avril, 225
Lawrence, Andrew, 174
Laws
and ethics, 59
international trade and, 50
laws and regulations, 48–49
lawsuits, 273
layoffs and outsourcing,
271–272
leadership, 267. See also
management
leadership and power
continuum, 267
leading edge vs bleeding
edge, 10
leading, 252
lean production, 323
Lee, Jack, 157
legal issues, 283
The Lego Movie, 224
LendingClub.com, 118
Leno, Jay, 254
leverage and capital structure, 159
debt financing, 159
equity financing, 161
financial leverage, 161–163
leverage ratios, 152–153
Levinson, Jay, 191
Levi Strauss & Co., 72
blue jeans, 201
mission statement of, 261
liabilities, 132–133
licensee, 46
licensing, 215
Liddy, Edward, 62
limit orders, 185
limited liability, 94
limited liability company
(LLC), 94, 104
advantages of, 104–105
formation and management, 104
limitations and disadvantages of, 105–106
limited liability partnership
(LLP), 98

limited partnership, 97
limited-service merchant
wholesalers, 239–240
line and staff organizations,
265–266
line extensions vs brand
extensions, 215
line extensions, 215
line managers, 266
line of credit, 157
limit orders, 185
line-and-staff organizations,
265
line extensions, 215
line managers, 262
line of credit, 157
line organizations, 265
liquid assets, 152
liquidity ratios, 152
loans, 118
long-term, 158
short-term, 156–157
local competition, 308
logistics, 242
London, Jack, 217
long-term debt, 158
long-term financing, 158–159
long-term funds, 158
corporate bonds, 159
direct investments from
owners, 158
long-term debt, 158
term loans, 159
long-term liabilities, 132
Los Angeles Times, 4, 276
loss, 5
losses, 5
capital, 176
loss-leader pricing, 246–247
loyalty, customer, 194
Lucas, George, 255
Luckey, Palmer, 254
Lululemon, 70

M
MacDougall, Alice Foote, 190
Ma, Jack, 118
macroeconomics, 18–19
Madden NFL, 154
Madécasse, Chocolatier, 69
Maine Lobster game, 243
maintenance, repair, and
operating products,
211
major media categories, 229
major marketing shift, 205
marketing and society,
205–206
technology and marketing, 206

major media categories, 229
major stock price indices,
187
making the right choice, 276
applications, 276
contingent workers, 277
interviews, 276
job offers, 277
references and background checks, 277
testing, 276
Malcolm Baldrige National
Quality Improvement
Act of 1987, 321–322
Malware, 299–300
management, 252–254
management accountants, 130
managerial accounting, 143
managerial planning, 260
managerial/management
accounting, 143
manager of new media, 17
manufacturers’ brands. See
national brands
market basket, 180
market development
options, 44
market makers, 183
market niches, 119–120
market order, 184
market segmentation, 195
market timing, 185–186
marketing, 190–194
evolution of, 193
scope of, 192–193
marketing concept, 193
marketing environment,
200–201
competitive, 200
economic, 200
political/legal, 201
social/cultural, 200–201
technological, 201
marketing era, 6, 193
marketing mix, 197–199
distribution strategy, 199
pricing strategy, 198–199
product strategy, 197–198
promotion strategy, 199
marketing plan, 195
marketing research, 202
data types, 204
international perspective,
205
primary research tools,
204
research data comparison,
203
Marlboro Man, 222
Marlboro, 247
Marx, Karl, 31

Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Mary Kay cosmetics, 243
Maslow, Abraham, 256
Maslow’s Hierarchy of
Needs Theory, 255
mass customization, 206, 308
Massive, 226
massively parallel computing, 292
mass production, 308
master budget, 142–143
materials handling, 243
matrix organizations, 266
maturity date, 177
McCarthy, Melissa, 222
McDonald’s balance sheets,
132
McDonald’s common stock,
187
52-week range, 188
bid and ask, 187
change, 187
day’s range, 187
Div & Yield, 188
earnings per share (EPS),
188
market cap, 188
price of, 187
price-to-earnings, 188
volume, 188
McDonald’s franchise, 46
McGregor, Douglas, 256
m-commerce, 242
measured media, 228
media options for advertising, 228, 229
meetings, face-to-face, 80
memos, 81
merchant wholesalers, 239
mergers, corporate, 102–103
Merrill Lynch, 62, 63
messages and responses, 84
Meyer, Stephenie, 115
Mickey Mouse creator, 115.
See also Walt Disney
company
microeconomics, 19
microloans, for start-up
funding, 118
microsoft, 47
microwave ovens, 124
middle management, 253–254
middle-level managers, 255
millennial generation, 4
millennial pledge, 4
millennials, 262
Miller Lite, 197
Milsom, Keith, 120
minorities and franchising,
107
minority business development agency, 107

missile systems, 278
mission, 261
missionary selling, 232
mission statements examples, 261
missionary selling, 232
mixed economies, 31–32
M1 money supply, 24
M2 money supply, 24
modes of transportation,
244
monetary policy, 23–26
money, 25
multiplying, by local
banks, 26
money market mutual funds,
164
money supply, 24
monopolistic competition, 28
monopoly, 28–29
Moonfruit, 224
Moscovitz, Dustin, 114
motivation, 255
motivation today, 258–259
theories of, 255
theory X and theory Y,
255–258
Mulcahy, Anne, 263
multibillion-dollar enterprises corporations, 94
Apple (technology), 94
Berkshire Hathaway
(investing), 94
Gilead (pharmaceuticals),
94
JP Morgan Chase
(banking), 94
Wells Fargo (banking), 94
multichannel retailing, 240
multilevel marketing
(MLM), 243
multi-pronged threat, 16
muscle milk, 228
mutual funds and ETFs,
179–180
diversification at relatively
low cost, 180
liquidity, 180
professional management,
180
variety, 180
Musk, Elon, 149, 175

N
NAFTA (North American
Free Trade
Agreement), 53
name, brand, 214–215
NASDAQ, 182
NASDAQ composite, 187

NASD (National Association of Securities
Dealers), 182
National Association of
Securities Dealers
(NASD), 182
national brands, 215
national brands vs store
brands, 215
nationality bias, 82
national minority franchising
initiative (NMFI), 107
national urban league, 107
native advertising, 224
natural disasters, 16
natural monopoly, 28
natural resources, 7–8
necessity entrepreneurs,
114
Neeleman, David, 119
negative leniency, 279
Nestlé, 13, 47
net asset value per share
(NAVPS), 179
net income, 136
net present value (NPV), 167
networks, 288
network television, 220
Neutrogena Corporation,
197
new product adoption and
diffusion, 218
new product development
process, 217
analysis, 217
commercialization, 218
development, 217
idea generation, 217
idea screening, 217
testing, 217
New York Stock
Exchange(NYSE),
182
New York Times, 231
New York-based BlackRock,
173
Newsweek, 89
Nguyen HuuTruc, 41
Niblock, Robert, 143
Nike, 45
Nikkei 225, 187
9/11 terrorist attacks, 16, 19
noise, 77
nominal GDP, 33
nondepository financial
institutions, 172
nondurable goods, 308
nonprofit corporations, 102
nonprofit organizations, 7,
192
nonprofit roundtable, 7

Non-Solicited Pornography
and Marketing Act,
301
nonstore retailers, 242
direct response retailing,
242–243
direct selling, 243
online retailing, 242
vending, 243
nonverbal communication,
78–80
eye contact, 78
facial expressions, 78–79
gestures and posture, 79
tone of voice, 78
North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA),
15, 53
North Korea, economic
reforms of, 79
Northwestern Mutual, 10
Noseworthy, Graeme, 7
NYSE (New York Stock
Exchange), 182

O
Obama, Barack, 9, 21, 51,
62, 79, 131, 192
observability of new
products, 217
observation and the honor
system, 32
observation research, 204
Occupational Safety and
Health Act of 1970,
283
odd pricing, 250
offshoring, 47
off-the-job training, 278
oil rigs, safety of, 323
Oklahoma-based Chesapeake Energy, 177
older workers, 272
oligopoly, 28
Old Navy, 214
oligopoly, 28
Omidyar, Pierre, 63
on-demand economy, 31
O’Neal, Stanley, 63
100 Best Companies to
Work For, 258
1Password, 302
online retailers, 242
online video advertising,
223
On-Road Integrated Optimization and Navigation
(ORION), 323
on-the-job training, 278
open-end mutual fund, 180
Index

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

387

Open Market Committee
rate, 25
open market operations,
24–25
operating activities, 137
operating budgets, 142
operating expenses, 136–137
operational planning, 260
operations management, 306
cutting cost and waste,
323–324
focus on quality, 319–323
implications of servicebased economy,
316–317
pivotal role, 310–316
responding to changing
environment, 306–309
technology of operations,
317–319
opportunity costs, 125
Orben, Robert, 293
order processing, 244
Ore-Ida, 212
organization chart, 263
organizational barriers, 77.
See also communication barriers
organizational models,
265–266
organization chart, 263
organizing function of management, 263
key organizing considerations, 263–265
organization models,
265–267
orientation, 278
ORION (On-Road Integrated
Optimization and
Navigation), 322
outlet stores, 241
out-of-pocket costs, 144
outsourcing, 271–272, 315
foreign, 45–46
overhead, of small businesses, 120
Over-the-Counter Market
(OTC), 183
owners’ equity, 132–133
ownership utility, 191, 238
Oze-Moore, 154
Oze-Moore International,
161

P
packaging, 216
Pagano, Michael, 186
Page, Larry, 113

388

The Pampered Chef, 243
paragraphs, block, 86
participatory budgeting,
142
partnerships, 93, 96–98
par value (of bond), 177
Paris terrorist attack (2015),
16
partnership, 47, 93
passive voice, 83
Patagonia, 70
patents from U.S. citizens,
46
pay for performance, 280
payments, electronic, 298
PayPal, 298
Pebble smart watch, 118
peer-to-peer lending, 118
penetration pricing, 245
Pennsylvania-based Vanguard Group, 173
people marketing, 192
perceived value vs actual
value, 194
perceptual barriers, 77. See
also communication
barriers
performance appraisals,
279
performance goals, 268
performance pay options,
280
personal customer service,
120
personal investing, 183
buying securities, 184–185
choosing a broker,
183–184
investing in securities,
185
personal privacy, 303
personal selling, 231
close sale, 232
follow-up, 232
handle objections, 232
prepare, 232
present, 232
prospect and qualify, 232
Peters, Tom, 242
Petrobras, 177
pets, benefits for, 281
Pew Research Center, 11,
273, 289
pharmaceutical sales
representative, 232
pharming, 301
phishing, 301
physical barriers, 77. See
also communication
barriers

physical distribution, 236,
243
proactive supply chain
management,
244–245
transportation decisions,
244
piracy of intellectual
property, 304–305
place marketing, 192
place utility, 191, 238
planned economies, 31–32
planned obsolescence, 67
planning, 252
planning function, 259
poka-yokes, 321
political climate, 49–50
political/legal environment,
200
polly pocket dolls, 45
Porter, Donald, 319
positioning statement, 221
positive leniency, 279
PPI (producer price index),
35
Prahalad, C.K., 48, 72
preferred stock, 177
claim on assets, 177
payment of dividends,
177
price levels, 35–36
pricing in practice, 247
consumer pricing perceptions, 249
breakeven analysis, 248
fixed margin pricing, 249
pricing objectives and strategies, 245
boosting volume, 245
building profitability, 245
primary and secondary markets, 180
primary data, 204
primary research tools,
203–204
primary securities market,
180–181
private placement, 181
public offering, 181
principal of a loan, 159
Prius hybrid, 71, 195, 204
privacy, personal, 303–304
private enterprise system, 26
private label, 216
private placements, 181
privatization, 32
proactive supply chain management, 244–245
probationary period, 277
process, 310

processed materials, 211
process layout, 311
process selection, 310–311
Procter & Gamble, 41, 263,
296
producer price index (PPI),
35
product adoption categories,
218
product classification,
210–211
product consistency, 213
product differentiation,
212
clear beer, 212
funky french fries, 212
lumia 900, 212
vegetable jello, 212
product diffusion rates, 218
compatibility, 218
complexity, 218
observability, 218
relative advantage, 218
trialability, 218
product features, 213
production era of marketing,
6, 193
productivity, 36
product layers, 210
production era, 6, 193
productivity, 36
product life cycle, 219
decline, 219–220
growth, 219
maturity, 219
product lines, 214
product mixes, 214
product placement, 224
Coca-Cola, 221
James Bond, 224
modern family (2010),
224
walking dead, 224
product quality, 212
product quality indicators,
213
product strategy, 194
product-use–based segmentation, 197
profitability, building, 239
profitability ratios, 153
profit margin, 249
profits, 5
right to keep, in capitalism, 27
and social responsibility,
65–66
proforma financial
statements, 154
project scheduling, 313–314

Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

promotion, 220
in chaos, 220
consistency and focus,
220–221
coordinating the communication, 221
promotional channels, 223
emerging, 223–224
traditional, 227–232
promotional mix, 223
promotional products, 228
promotional strategies, 199
property, plant, and equipment, 132
Prosper.com, 118
protecting intellectual property rights, 304
protecting the environment,
309
protectionism, 50
PR (public relations), 230–231
psychographic segmentation,
196
public accountants, 130
public company accounting oversight board
(PCAOB), 140
publicity, 231
public offerings, 181
public relations, 230
create a petition, 231
launch a hall of fame, 231
make a list, 231
Pullman, David, 184
pull strategy, 233
pull systems, 324
pure capitalism, 27–28
pure competition, 27
pure goods, 210
pure services, 210
Purina, 13
push strategy, 233

Q
qualified opinion, 139
quality control, in foreign
outsourcing, 45
quality level, 213
quality of life, 6
Qualman, Erik, 223
Quicken loans nurtures,
259
quotas, 50

R
race bias, 83
race/ethnicity/nationality
bias, 83

radio frequency identification (RFID), 299
Ralph Lauren corporation,
71
Ransomware, 300
rational big ideas, 222
raw materials, 211
Reagan, Ronald, 21
rebates, 228
recession, 34
recovery, economic, 34–35
recruitment, 275–276
external recruitment, 275
internal recruitment, 275
Redbox, 191
refugees, in the European
Union, 55
registration statement, 181
regulation of small businesses, 121
Reiman, Tonya, 79
relationship era, 6–7,
193–194
relative advantage of new
products, 218
required reserve ratio, 26
reserve requirement
changes, 26
residual claim on assets,
177
retailers, 230, 239–240
retail store categories, 241
retailers, 239–243
retained earnings, 158
retired people, business
threats by, 14
return on equity (ROE),
153
return on investment (ROI),
245
return on sales (ROS), 245
revenue, 134–135
revolving credit agreement,
157
Rhoads, Terry, 199
right promotional mix, 233
budget, 233
competitive environment,
233
product characteristics,
233
product life cycle, 233
push vs pull, 233
target audience, 233
right words, 80
active voice, 83
analyze your audience, 81
avoid bias, 81–83
avoid slang, 81
be concise, 81

risk, 151
risk-return relationship,
151
risk-return trade-off, 151
robolove, 3–4
robotic parking valet, 3
robots, 318
Rock, Chris, 254
Romano, Ray, 130
Rowling, J.K., 116
Russell 2000, 187
Russia, business environment
of, 8

S
salaries, 280
sales budget, 142
Salesforce.com, 134
salespeople, 231–232
sales process, 231–233
sales promotions, 228
Salvation Army bell, 231
samples, 228
Samsung Galaxy S8, 210
Sandberg, Sheryl, 61
Sarbanes-Oxley Act (2002),
64, 68, 140
Sarbox. See Sarbanes-Oxley
Act (2002)
SARS flu (2003), 16
satirical news stories, 79
savings and loan associations,
172
SBA (U.S. Small Business
Administration), 118,
122, 124, 155
Office of Advocacy, 116
resources of, 122
SBDCs (Small Business
Development
Centers), 123
Schwartz, Tony, 265
SCORE (Service Corps of
Retired Executives),
123
S Corporations, 102
Scott Thompson, 63
search engine optimization
(SEO), 223
seasonal unemployment, 34
SEC. See Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC)
secondary data, 204
secondary securities market,
181
secure socket layer (SSL),
298
Securities Act (1933), 175

Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC),
129–139, 175, 181
securities brokers, 173
securities dealers, 173
securities exchange, 182
Securities Exchange Act
(1934), 175
securities markets, 173–178
security, 244
Segway Human Transporters, 219
Seinfeld, Jerry, 81
selection of job candidate,
276
selective distribution, 241
selfies and security, 302
self-reliance of entrepreneurs, 115–116
selling era, 193
selling expenses, 142
separation, 282–283
Service Corps of Retired
Executives (SCORE),
123
services, 209, 308
inseparability, 209
intangibility, 209
perishability, 209–210
variability, 209
servicescape, 316–317
ambience, 317
functionality, 317
signs/symbols/artifacts,
317
service utility, 239
sexual harassment, 284
shareholder value and
social responsibility,
150–151
Shaw, George Bernard, 86
Sherman Antitrust Act
(1890), 28
shopping products, 211
Siemens, 213
short-term bank loans,
157–158
short-term financing, 155
commercial paper, 157
factoring, 156–157
short-term bank loans,
157
trade credit, 156
Shortt, Tom, 313
Simmons, Russell, 14
Simone, Alina, 300
simple supply chains, 308
Simpson, Kevin, 300
Sintumuang, Kevin, 85
Six Sigma, 321
Index

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

389

Skeel, David, 163
skimming pricing, 247
Skyfall, 225
skyscraper construction,
174
S&Ls (savings and loan
associations), 172
Small Business Administration (SBA), 118, 122
small business administration office of advocacy, 116
small business and entrepreneurship, 112
and the economy, 124–125
the entrepreneur, 114–116
funding options for,
117–119
launch options, 121–124
launching a new venture,
112–114
opportunities and threats,
119–121
Small Business Development
Centers (SBDCs), 123
small business opportunities,
119–120
lower overhead costs, 120
market niches, 120
personal customer service,
120
technology, 120
small business threats,
120–121
bigger regulatory burden,
121
high risk of failure, 120
higher health insurance
costs, 121
lack of knowledge and
experience, 121
too little money, 121
smartphones and selfies,
302
SMiShing, 302
Smith, Adam, 26
Smith, Curt, 323
Smith, Fred, 115
Smith, Mike, 255
Snapchat, 70
social audit, 73
social environment, 12–15
aging population, 14
diversity, 13–14
ethics and social responsibility, 15
rising worker expectations, 14
social environment of business, 12–14

390

socialism, 30–31
social media, 82
social responsibility, 64–71
social responsibility at work,
66
sociocultural differences,
international, 47
software, 288
software technologies,
318–319
Sohl, Jeffrey, 119
SolarCity, 176
sole proprietorships, advantages, 95
ease of formation, 95
possible tax advantage,
96
pride of ownership, 96
retention of control, 95–96
retention of profits, 96
sole proprietorships, disadvantages, 93, 96
heavy workload and
responsibilities, 96
lack of permanence, 96
limited ability, 96
limited financial resources,
96
unlimited liability, 96
Southwest Airlines, 270, 215,
262, 270
Sony and Toyota, 42
sound financial management, 162
Southern California amusement park, 260
SOX. See Sarbanes-Oxley
Act (2002)
spam, 301
span of control, 264
Spielberg, Steven, 224
spin-off, 103
spontaneous financing. See
trade credit
Spyware, 299
staff managers, 266
stakeholder approach,
65–71
responsibility to community, 68–69
responsibility to customers, 65–67
responsibility to employees, 65
responsibility to environment, 69–71
responsibility to investors,
67–68
stakeholders, 65
Standard & Poor’s 500, 187

Standard Bank of Africa, 41
starbucks, 308
statement of cash flows,
136–138
statement of retained earnings, 138
static budgets, 143
statutory close corporations,
102
Stefanick, Mark, 300
Stella McCartney, 213
Steur, John, 156
Stewart, Martha, 115
stock (securities) exchanges,
182
stockholders, 99
stockholders’ equity statement, 138
stock index, 183
stock symbol, 187
Stoller, Bill, 230
Stonyfield Farms, 70
store brands, 216
store retailers, 240–241
strategic alliances, 47
strategic goals, 262
strategic planning, 259,
261
creating your strategies,
262–263
defining your mission,
261
evaluating and incorporating, 263
evaluating your competitive position, 261–262
implementing your strategies, 263
setting your goals, 262
Strauss, Levi, 72–73
structural unemployment,
34
structured interviews, 276
subprime mortgage loans,
20–21
sub-Saharan African nations,
41
Subway Sandwiches, 213
success of small businesses,
120, 121
supercenters, 241
supermarkets, 241
supervisory management,
253
supplier, accounting results
and, 129
supply chain elements, 243
supply chain management
(SCM), 243
supply curve, 29

survey of small business
finances, 156
survey research, 205
sustainability, 15, 204,
324
sustainable development,
69
Swift, Taylor, 67
swot analysis, 261
SWOT analysis, 261, 263
system software, 288

T
tactical planning, 260
Tadesse, Fassill, 312
Taiwan-based Foxconn
Technology Group,
157
Target and Publix, 197
target firm, 102
target markets, 195–196
tariffs, 50
TARP (Troubled Assets
Relief Program), 21
tattoos on employees, 283
taxation
and debt financing, 159
double, of corporations,
101
of limited liability
companies, 97–98,
104–105
of partnerships, 96
of sole proprietorships,
95
taxes and socialism, 32
T-bills. See treasury bills
team selling, 232
technical skills, 254
technological environment,
11–12
technology
in business, 11–12
and marketing, 205
small businesses, use of,
119
telecommuting, 282
telephone, right to buy
decision, 255
telephone conversations, 81
temporarily reversing
course, 175
term loans, 159
terrorist attacks, 16, 18
testing, employment, 276
Tesla Motors, 176
texting, 81
Thain, John, 62
Thaler, Richard, 181

Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

Theory X and Theory Y,
256–257
Thomas, Jordan, 66
Thomadakis, Stavros, 140
Thomas the Tank Engine
trains, 45
time utility, 191, 238
time value of money, 166
Time, 49
Title VII of Civil Rights Act,
283
top-down budgeting, 142
top management, 253
top-level managers, 255
total quality management
(TQM), 320
customer focus, 320
emphasis on building
quality, 320
empowerment of employees, 320
focus on prevention, 320
long-run commitment to
continuous improvement, 321
Toyota, 13
Toyota Prius hybrid car, 71
Toyota Prius, 196
trade credit, 156
trade deficit, 43
trade, international, 14
trade promotions, 230
trade surplus, 43
trading blocs, 53
traditional promotional tools,
227
advertising, 227–228
personal selling, 231
public relations, 230–231
sales promotion, 228
training and development,
278
computer-based training,
279
management development, 279
off-the-job training, 278
on-the-job training, 278
orientation, 278
Transparency International,
71
transportation and distribution, 244
transportation modes, 244
transportation, 244
treasury bills, 151
Trendwatching.com, 2–4,
31
Troubled Assets Relief
Program (TARP), 21

troubled waters, 50
trough, 34
truck jobbers, 240
Trump, Donald, 40, 52–53,
79, 118, 171, 192
Tupac’s Shakur (2012), 4
Twain, Mark, 80
20th Century Fox, 255
24 Hour Fitness, 191
Twitter, 134, 223
Typhoon Haiyan (2013), 16

U
Uber, 4, 7, 12, 24, 60–61,
162, 258
Uber syndrome, 12
Ulrich, David, 259
UGG Australia, 191
uncertainty, tolerance of in
entrepreneurs, 116
underwriting syndicate,
181
unemployment rate, 33
Unilever, 72
Union Street Guest House,
203
universal ethical standards,
59–60
unsought products, 210
UPS, 322
Uruguay Round, 51
U.S. Army, 192
U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics, 36
U.S. Census Bureau, 13
U.S. Pan Asian American
Chamber of Commerce, 107
U.S. Patent Office, 116
U.S. Postal Service, 238
U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), 118,
122–123, 155
Office of Advocacy, 116
resources of, 122
U.S. Supreme Court,
284U.S. Treasury bills
(T-bills), 163
utility, 190

V
value chain, 309, 315–316
value investing, 186
variable costs, 145
variable pay systems, 280
vending machines, 238, 240
vendor-managed inventories,
243

Venmo, 298
venture capital firms, 119
verbal presentations,
87–90
back wall, 90
body, 88
close of, 88
delivery, 90
google presentations, 89
handling hostility, 90
handling nerves, 89
incorporating humor, 90
opening of, 87–88
questions, 88
visual aids, 88–89
Verizon, 13
Veronica Mars, 118
VERs (voluntary export
restraints), 50
vertical integration, 309
vertical mergers, 103
vestibule training, 278
Viagra, 124
Victoria’s Secret, 240
video advertising, 223
videoconferencing, 81
video games as marketing
tools, 225
Vietnam, economic reforms
of, 41
viral marketing, 226,
297–298
viruses, computer, 297
virtual experience economy, 4
vision, of entrepreneurs,
115
visual aids for presentations,
88
voice, tone of, and communication, 78
voice mail, 81
Volkswagen, 70, 156, 231
volume, increasing sale,
244–245
voluntary export restraints
(VERs), 50–51
voting rights of stock, 176
Vroom, Victor, 257
Vuitton, Louis, 324

W
Waffle House, 191
wage gap, 272
wages, 280
Wald, Hans, 292
The Wall Street Journal, 187,
259
The Wall Street Journal’s
Career Journal, 78

Walmart, 13, 41, 71, 99,
115, 120, 194–195,
216, 231, 241, 243,
246, 313
Walt Disney Company,
115
Walton, Sam, 115
warehouse clubs, 241
warehouse managers, 251
warehousing, 243
Warrior Met Coal LLC,
181
Washington Mutual, 20
water, access to, internationally, 50
Watkins, Sherron, 63
Web 2.0, 295
Weinstein, Shel, 120
Wendy’s, franchising lawsuits, 106
Western Union, 255
Wetpaint/Altimeter study,
223
wheel of retailing, 242
whistle-blowers, 64
Whole Foods Market, 213
wholesalers, 239
Whopper Sacrifice, 226
Wikberg, Stefan, 139
Wikipedia, 195
Wilshire 5000, 187
Wilson, Chip, 70
Winfrey, Oprah, 79
Winterkorn, Martin, 70
Winterton, Grant, 49
women workers, 272–273
Wonder Woman, 210
Workday, 259
worker expectations, rising,
14
workers. See employees
workforce advantage, 11
work–life balance, 273
worker satisfaction, 11
workforce advantage,
11–12
work-life balance, 273
the World Bank, 52
World Health Organization,
50
world marketplace, 38
barriers to trade, 56
for big ideas, 223
cell phones and, 41–42
competition in, 307
emerging economies, 40
ethics and social responsibility in, 70–72
free trade, 51–55
global trade, 43–44
Index

Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

391

world marketplace (continued)
international trade
barriers, 47–51
international trade
reasons, 42–43
marketing in, 196, 198,
202
offshoring, international,
315
seizing the opportunity,
44–47
social responsibility in the,
70–72

392

An unprecedented opportunity, 38–42
world’s largest institutional
investors, 173–176
deregulation, 175
financial regulation,
174–175
reregulation, 175–176
World Trade Organization
(WTO), 51
World Wide Web, 12, 288,
297
worms, 300

WTO (World Trade
Organization), 52

X
Xerox, 263

Y
Yellen, Janet, 24
younger workers, 272
Yugoslavia, inflation in, 35
Yunis, Muhammad, 41

Z
Zappos.com, 239
Zara, 324
Zara’s flagship store, 324
Zarrella, Dan, 204
Zerella, Bill, 131
Zuckerberg, Mark, 115,
259
entrepreneurship of,
114–115, 119
and the Hacker Way, 259
Zume Pizza, 318

Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

