GLOSSARY
401(k), 403(b), and 457 plans
Employee payroll-deduction retirement plans that offer tax benefits.
absolute advantage
The benefit a country has in a given industry when it can produce more of a product than other nations using the same amount of resources.
accounting
A system for recognizing, organizing, analyzing, and reporting information about the financial transactions that affect an organization.
accounting equation
Assets 5 Liabilities 1
Owners’ Equity
accredited investor
An organization or individual investor who meets certain criteria established by the SEC and so qualifies to invest in unregistered securities.
accrual-basis accounting
The method of accounting that recognizes revenue when it is earned and matches expenses to the revenues they helped produce.
acquisition
A corporate restructuring in which one firm buys another.
active listening
Attentive listening that occurs when the listener focuses his or her complete attention on the speaker.
362
active voice
Sentence construction in which the subject performs the action expressed by the verb (e.g., The accountant did the taxes.). The active voice works better for the vast majority of business communication.
activity-based costing
(ABC)
A technique to assign product costs based on links between activities that drive costs and the production of specific products.
administrative law
Laws that arise from regulations established by government agencies.
advergaming
Video games created as a marketing tool, usually with brand awareness as the core goal.
advertising
Paid, nonpersonal communication, designed to influence a target audience with regard to a product, service, organization, or idea.
affirmative action
Policies meant to increase employment and educational opportunities for minority groups—especially groups defined by race, ethnicity, or gender.
goods they distribute (even though they may take physical possession on a temporary basis before distribution).
angel investors
Individuals who invest in start-up companies with high growth potential in exchange for a share of ownership.
annual percentage rate (APR)
The interest expense charged on a credit card, expressed as an annual percentage.
applications software
autocratic leaders
Leaders who hoard decisionmaking power for themselves and typically issue orders without consulting their followers.
automation
Replacing human operation and control of machinery and equipment with some form of programmed control.
balance of payments
A measure of the total flow of money into or out of a country.
balance of payments deficit
apprenticeships
Shortfall that occurs when more money flows out of a nation than into that nation.
Structured training programs that mandate that each beginner serve as an assistant to a fully trained worker before gaining full credentials to work in the field.
arbitration
A process in which a neutral third party has the authority to resolve a dispute by rendering a binding decision.
articles of incorporation
agent
A party who agrees to represent another party, called the principal.
asset management ratios
Independent distributors who do not take title of the
Resources owned by a firm.
Software that helps a user perform a desired task.
The document filed with a state government to establish the existence of a new corporation.
agents/brokers
assets
Financial ratios that measure how effectively a firm is using its assets to generate revenues or cash.
balance of payments surplus
Overage that occurs when more money flows into a nation than out of that nation.
balance of trade
A basic measure of the difference in value between a nation’s exports and imports, including both goods and services.
balance sheet
A financial statement that reports the financial position of a firm by identifying and reporting the value of the firm’s assets, liabilities, and owners’ equity.
Baldrige National
Quality Program
A national program to encourage American
Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
firms to focus on quality improvement.
Banking Act of 1933
budgeted income statement
business intelligence system
The overall value of a brand to an organization.
A projection showing how a firm’s budgeted sales and costs will affect expected net income. (Also called a pro forma income statement.)
A sophisticated form of decision support system that helps decision makers discover information that was previously hidden.
brand extension
budgeting
A new product, in a new category, introduced under an existing brand name.
business law
A management tool that explicitly shows how a firm will acquire and use the resources needed to achieve its goals over a specific time period.
The application of laws and legal principles to business relationships and transactions.
image—that sets it apart from other players in the same category.
The law that established the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) to insure bank deposits. It also prohibited commercial banks from selling insurance or acting as investment banks.
brand equity
behavioral segmentation
breach of contract
Dividing the market based on how people behave toward various products. This category includes both the benefits that consumers seek from products and how consumers use the products.
benefits
Noncash compensation, including programs such as health insurance, vacation, and childcare.
bias
A preconception about members of a particular group. Common forms of bias include gender bias; age bias; and race, ethnicity, or nationality bias.
board of directors
The individuals who are elected by stockholders of a corporation to represent their interests.
bond
A formal debt instrument issued by a corporation or government entity.
boycott
A tactic in which a union and its supporters and sympathizers refuse to do business with an employer with which they have a labor dispute.
brand
A product’s identity—including product name, symbol, design, reputation, and
The failure of one party to a contract to perform his or her contractual obligations.
breakeven analysis
The process of determining the number of units a firm must sell to cover all costs.
broadband Internet connection
business
Any organization or activity that provides goods and services in an effort to earn a profit.
business buyer behavior
An Internet connection that is capable of transmitting large amounts of information very quickly.
Describes how people act when they are buying products to use either directly or indirectly to produce other products.
budget (personal)
business cycle
A detailed forecast of financial inflows (income) and outflows (expenses) to determine your net inflow or outflow for a given period of time.
The periodic contraction and expansion that occur over time in virtually every economy.
budget deficit
Shortfall that occurs when expenses are higher than revenue over a given period of time.
budget surplus
Overage that occurs when revenue is higher than expenses over a given period of time.
budgeted balance sheet
A projected financial statement that forecasts the types and amounts of assets a firm will need to implement its future plans and how the firm will finance those assets. (Also called a pro forma balance sheet.)
business environment
The setting in which business operates. The five key components are: economic environment, competitive environment, technological environment, social environment, and global environment.
business ethics
The application of right and wrong, good and bad, in a business setting.
business format franchise
A broad franchise agreement in which the franchisee pays for the right to use the name, trademark, and business and production methods of the franchisor.
business marketers
(also known as business-tobusiness or B2B)
Marketers who direct their efforts toward people who are buying products to use either directly or indirectly to produce other products.
business plan
A formal document that describes a business concept, outlines core business objectives, and details strategies and timelines for achieving those objectives.
business products
Products purchased to use either directly or indirectly in the production of other products.
business technology
Any tools—especially computers, telecommunications, and other digital products— that businesses can use to become more efficient and effective.
business-to-business
(B2B) e-commerce
E-commerce in markets where businesses buy from and sell to other businesses.
business-to-consumer
(B2C) e-commerce
E-commerce in which businesses and final consumers interact.
Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
363
buzz marketing
carbon footprint
Chapter 7 bankruptcy
The active stimulation of word-of-mouth via unconventional, and often relatively low-cost, tactics. Other terms for buzz marketing are
“guerrilla marketing” and
“viral marketing.”
Refers to the amount of harmful greenhouse gases that a firm emits throughout its operations, both directly and indirectly.
A form of bankruptcy that discharges a debtor’s debts by liquidating assets and using the proceeds to pay off creditors.
case law (also called common law)
Chapter 11 bankruptcy
C corporation
The most common type of corporation, which is a legal business entity that offers limited liability to all of its owners, who are called stockholders.
cafeteria-style benefits
An approach to employee benefits that gives all employees a set dollar amount that they must spend on company benefits, allocated however they wish within broad limitations.
cannibalization
When a producer offers a new product that takes sales away from its existing products.
capital budgeting
The process a firm uses to evaluate long-term investment proposals.
capital gain
The return on an asset that results when its market price rises above the price the investor paid for it.
capital structure
The mix of equity and debt financing a firm uses to meet its permanent financing needs.
capitalism
An economic system— also known as the private enterprise or free market system—based on private ownership, economic freedom, and fair competition.
364
Laws that result from rulings, called precedents, made by judges who initially hear a particular type of case.
cash budget
A detailed forecast of future cash flows that helps financial managers identify when their firm is likely to experience temporary shortages or surpluses of cash.
cash equivalents
Safe and highly liquid assets that many firms list with their cash holdings on their balance sheet.
cause-related marketing
A form of bankruptcy used by corporations and individuals that allows the debtor to reorganize operations under a court-approved plan.
Chapter 13 bankruptcy
A form of bankruptcy that allows individual debtors to set up a repayment plan to adjust their debts.
Civil Rights Act of 1964
Federal legislation that prohibits discrimination in hiring, firing, compensation, apprenticeships, training, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment based on race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.
closed shop
Marketing partnerships between businesses and nonprofit organizations, designed to spike sales for the company and raise money for the nonprofit.
An employment arrangement in which the employer agrees to hire only workers who already belong to the union.
certificate of deposit
(CD)
The use of Internet-based storage capacity, processing power, and computer applications to supplement or replace internally owned information technology resources.
An interest-earning deposit that requires the funds to remain deposited for a fixed term. Withdrawal of the funds before the term expires results in a financial penalty.
channel intermediaries
Distribution organizations that facilitate the movement of products from the producer to the consumer.
channel of distribution
The network of organizations and processes that links producers to consumers.
cloud computing
cobranding
When established brands from different companies join forces to market the same product.
code of ethics
A formal, written document that defines the ethical standards of an organization and gives employees the information they need to
make ethical decisions across a range of situations.
cognitive dissonance
Consumer discomfort with a purchase decision, typically for a higher-priced item.
collective bargaining
The process by which representatives of union members and employers attempt to negotiate a mutually acceptable labor agreement.
commercial banks
Privately owned financial institutions that accept demand deposits and make loans and provide other services for the public.
commercial paper
Short-term (and usually unsecured) promissory notes issued by large corporations.
common market
A group of countries that have eliminated tariffs and harmonized trading rules to facilitate the free flow of goods among the member nations.
common stock
The basic form of ownership in a corporation.
communication
The transmission of information between a sender and a recipient.
communication barriers
Obstacles to effective communication, typically defined in terms of physical, language, body language, cultural, perceptual, and organizational barriers.
communication channels
The various ways in which a message can be sent, ranging from one-on-one in-person
Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
meetings to Internet message boards.
attaching itself to emails or other files.
communism
computer-aided design
(CAD)
An economic and political system that calls for public ownership of virtually all enterprises, under the direction of a strong central government.
company matching
An amount contributed by the employer to an employee’s retirement account, matching the employee’s retirement contributions either dollar for dollar or based on a percentage of each dollar contributed by the employee.
comparative advantage
The benefit a country has in a given industry if it can make products at a lower opportunity cost than other countries.
compensation
The combination of pay and benefits that employees receive in exchange for their work.
compensatory damages
Monetary payments that a party who breaches a contract is ordered to pay in order to compensate the injured party for the actual harm suffered by the breach of contract.
compressed workweek
A version of flextime scheduling that allows employees to work a full-time number of hours in less than the standard workweek.
computer virus
Computer software that can be spread from one computer to another without the knowledge or permission of the computer users by
Drawing and drafting software that enables users to create and edit blueprints and design drawings quickly and easily.
computer-aided design/computer-aided manufacturing (CAD/
CAM)
A combination of software that can be used to design output and send instructions to automated equipment to perform the steps needed to produce this output.
computer-aided engineering (CAE)
Software that enables users to test, analyze, and optimize their designs.
computer-aided manufacturing (CAM)
Software that takes the electronic design for a product and creates the programmed instructions that robots must follow to produce that product as efficiently as possible.
computer-integrated manufacturing (CIM)
A combination of CAD/
CAM software with flexible manufacturing systems to automate almost all steps involved in designing, testing, and producing a product.
conceptual skills
consideration
Something of value that one party gives another as part of a contractual agreement.
to be safe, (2) the right to be informed, (3) the right to choose, and (4) the right to be heard.
constitution
contingency planning
A code that establishes the fundamental rules and principles that govern a particular organization or entity.
Planning for unexpected events, usually involving a range of scenarios and assumptions that differ from the assumptions behind the core plans.
consumer behavior
Description of how people act when they are buying, using, and discarding goods and services for their own personal consumption. Consumer behavior also explores the reasons behind people’s actions.
consumer marketers
(also known as business-to-consumer or B2C)
Marketers who direct their efforts toward people who are buying products for personal consumption.
consumer price index
(CPI)
A measure of inflation that evaluates the change in the weighted-average price of goods and services that the average consumer buys each month.
contingent workers
Employees who do not expect regular, full-time jobs, including temporary fulltime workers, independent contractors, and temporary agency or contract agency workers.
contract
An agreement that is legally enforceable.
contraction
A period of economic downturn, marked by rising unemployment and falling business production.
controlling
Monitoring performance and making adjustments as needed.
convertible security
Products purchased for personal use or consumption.
A bond or share of preferred stock that gives its holder the right to exchange it for a stated number of shares of common stock.
consumer promotion
copyright
consumer products
The ability to grasp a bigpicture view of the overall organization, the relationships among its various parts, and its fit in the broader competitive environment.
Marketing activities designed to generate immediate consumer sales, using tools such as premiums, promotional products, samples, coupons, rebates, and displays.
The exclusive legal right of an author, artist, or other creative individual to use, copy, display, perform, and sell their own creations and to license others to do so.
conglomerate merger
consumerism
A combination of two firms that are in unrelated industries.
A social movement that focuses on four key consumer rights: (1) the right
The basic rules governing how a corporation is organized and how it conducts its business.
corporate bylaws
Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
365
corporate philanthropy
All business donations to nonprofit groups, including money, products, and employee time.
corporate responsibility
credit score
A numerical measure of a consumer’s creditworthiness.
credit union
Business contributions to the community through the actions of the business itself rather than donations of money and time.
A depository institution that is organized as a cooperative, meaning that it is owned by its depositors.
corporation
A wrongful act against society, defined by law and prosecuted by the state.
A form of business ownership in which the business is considered a legal entity that is separate and distinct from its owners.
cost
The value of what is given up in exchange for something.
countertrade
International trade that involves the barter of products for products rather than for currency.
coupon rate
The interest paid on a bond, expressed as a percentage of the bond’s par value.
covenant
A restriction lenders impose on borrowers as a condition of providing long-term debt financing.
craft union
A union comprising workers who share the same skill or work in the same profession.
credit
Allows a borrower to buy a good or acquire an asset without making immediate payment, and to repay the balance at a later time.
credit card
A card issued by a bank or finance company that allows the cardholder to make a
366
purchase now and pay the credit card issuer later.
crime
critical path method
(CPM)
A project-management tool that illustrates the relationships among all the activities involved in completing a project and identifies the sequence of activities likely to take the longest to complete.
critical path
The sequence of activities in a project that is expected to take the longest to complete.
current yield
The amount of interest earned on a bond, expressed as a percentage of the bond’s current market price.
customer benefit
The advantage that a customer gains from specific product features.
customer loyalty
When customers buy a product from the same supplier again and again—sometimes paying even more for it than they would for a competitive product.
customer satisfaction
When customers perceive that a good or service delivers value above and beyond their expectations.
cybermediary
An Internet-based firm that specializes in the secure electronic transfer of funds.
data
Raw, unprocessed facts and figures.
data mining
The use of sophisticated statistical and mathematical techniques to analyze vast amounts of data to discover hidden patterns and relationships, thus creating valuable information.
data warehouse
A large, organization-wide database that stores data in a centralized location.
database
A file consisting of related data organized according to a logical system and stored on a hard drive or some other computer-accessible media.
debit card
A card issued by the bank that allows the customer to make purchases as if the transaction involved cash.
In a debit card purchase, the customer’s bank account is immediately reduced when the purchase is made.
debt financing
Funds provided by lenders
(creditors).
customer relationship management (CRM)
decision support system (DSS)
The ongoing process of acquiring, maintaining, and growing profitable customer relationships by delivering unmatched value.
A system that gives managers access to large amounts of data and the processing power to convert these data into high-quality
information, thus improving the decision-making process.
deflation
A period of falling average prices across the economy.
degree of centralization
The extent to which decision-making power is held by a small number of people at the top of the organization.
demand
The quantity of products that consumers are willing to buy at different market prices.
demand curve
The graphed relationship between price and quantity from a customer demand standpoint.
democratic leaders
Leaders who share power with their followers. While they still make final decisions, they typically solicit and incorporate input from their followers.
demographic segmentation
Dividing the market into smaller groups based on measurable characteristics about people, such as age, income, ethnicity, and gender.
demographics
The measurable characteristics of a population.
Demographic factors include population size and density as well as specific traits such as age, gender, and race.
departmentalization
The division of workers into logical groups.
depository institution
A financial intermediary that obtains funds by accepting checking and savings
Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
deposits and then lending those funds to borrowers.
divestiture
An especially deep and longlasting recession.
The transfer of total or partial ownership of some of a firm’s operations to investors or to another company.
direct channel
Dodd-Frank Act
depression
A distribution process that links the producer and the customer with no intermediaries.
direct cost
Costs that are incurred directly as the result of some specific cost object.
direct investment
(or foreign direct investment) When firms either acquire foreign firms or develop new facilities from the ground up in foreign countries.
discount rate
The rate of interest that the
Federal Reserve charges when it loans funds to banks.
A law enacted in the aftermath of the financial crisis of 2008–2009 that strengthened government oversight of financial markets and placed limitations on risky financial strategies such as heavy reliance on leverage.
Dow Jones Industrial
Average (DJIA)
An index that tracks stock prices of 30 large, wellknown U.S. corporations.
dynamic delivery
Vibrant, compelling presentation delivery style that grabs and holds the attention of the audience.
between price and perceived benefits.
efficiency
Producing output or achieving a goal at the lowest cost.
electronic bill presentment and payment
A method of bill payment that makes it easy for the customer to make a payment, often by simply clicking on a payment option contained in an email.
electronic communications network (ECN)
An automated, computerized securities trading system that automatically matches buyers and sellers, executing trades quickly and allowing trading when securities exchanges are closed.
e-marketplace
entrepreneurs
People who risk their time, money, and other resources to start and manage a business.
environmental scanning
The process of continually collecting information from the external marketing environment.
Equal Employment
Opportunity
Commission (EEOC)
A federal agency designed to regulate and enforce the provisions of Title VII.
equilibrium price
The price associated with the point at which the quantity demanded of a product equals the quantity supplied.
equity financing
Funds provided by the owners of a company.
Expenditures for which the spender has significant control in terms of the amount and timing.
The marketing, buying, selling, and servicing of products over a network (usually the
Internet).
A specialized Internet site where buyers and sellers engaged in business-tobusiness e-commerce can communicate and conduct business.
disinflation
economic system
embargo
ethical dilemma
A period of slowing average price increases across the economy.
A structure for allocating limited resources.
distribution strategy
A complete ban on international trade of a certain item, or a total halt in trade with a particular nation.
The study of the choices that people, companies, and governments make in allocating society’s resources.
A decision that involves a conflict of values; every potential course of action has some significant negative consequences.
discretionary payments
A plan for delivering the right product to the right person at the right place at the right time.
distributive bargaining
The traditional adversarial approach to collective bargaining.
distributorship
A type of franchising arrangement in which the franchisor makes a product and licenses the franchisee to sell it.
e-commerce
economics
economy
A financial and social system of how resources flow through society, from production to distribution, to consumption.
effectiveness
Using resources to create value by providing customers with goods and services that offer a better relationship
employment at will
A legal doctrine that views employment as an entirely voluntary relationship that both the employee and employer are free to terminate at any time and for any reason.
enterprise resource planning (ERP)
Software-based approach to integrate an organization’s
(and in the sophisticated versions, a value chain’s) information flows.
equity theory
A motivation theory that proposes that perceptions of fairness directly affect worker motivation.
ethics
A set of beliefs about right and wrong, good and bad.
European Union (EU)
The world’s largest common market, composed of 28
European nations.
everyday-low pricing
(EDLP)
Long-term discount pricing, designed to achieve profitability through high sales volume.
Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
367
exchange rate
A measurement of the value of one nation’s currency relative to the currency of other nations.
exchange traded fund
(ETF)
Shares traded on securities markets that represent the legal right of ownership over part of a basket of individual stock certificates or other securities.
expansion
A period of robust economic growth and high employment.
expectancy theory
A motivation theory that concerns the relationship among individual effort, individual performance, and individual reward.
expenses
Resources that are used up as the result of business operations.
expert system (ES)
A decision support system that helps managers make better decisions in an area where they lack expertise.
exporting
Selling products in foreign nations that have been produced or grown domestically.
external locus of control
A deep-seated sense that forces other than the individual are responsible for what happens in his or her life.
factor
A company that provides short-term financing to firms by purchasing their accounts receivables at a discount.
factors of production
Four fundamental elements—natural resources, capital, human resources, and entrepreneurship—that businesses need to achieve their objectives.
federal debt
The sum of all the money that the federal government has borrowed over the years and not yet repaid.
Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation
(FDIC)
An independent agency created by Congress to maintain stability and public confidence in the nation’s financial system, primarily by insuring bank deposits.
Federal Reserve Act of
1913
The law that established the
Federal Reserve System as the central bank of the United
States.
finance
The functional area of business that is concerned with finding the best sources and uses of financial capital.
Financial Accounting
Standards Board
(FASB)
The process of seeking new employees from outside the firm.
The private board that establishes the generally accepted accounting principles used in the practice of financial accounting.
extranet
financial accounting
An intranet that allows limited access to a selected group of
The branch of accounting that prepares financial statements
external recruitment
368
stakeholders, such as suppliers or customers.
for use by owners, creditors, suppliers, and other external stakeholders.
financial budgets
Budgets that focus on the firm’s financial goals and identify the resources needed to achieve these goals.
financial capital
The funds a firm uses to acquire its assets and finance its operations.
financial diversification
A strategy of investing in a wide variety of securities in order to reduce risk.
financial leverage
The use of debt in a firm’s capital structure.
financial markets
Markets that transfer funds from savers to borrowers.
financial ratio analysis
fiscal policy
Government efforts to influence the economy through taxation and spending.
fixed costs
Costs that remain the same when the level of production changes within some relevant range.
flextime
A scheduling option that allows workers to choose when they start and finish their workdays, as long as they complete the required number of hours.
foreign franchising
A specialized type of foreign licensing in which a firm expands by offering businesses in other countries the right to produce and market its products according to specific operating requirements.
foreign licensing
Computing ratios that compare values of key accounts listed on a firm’s financial statements.
Authority granted by a domestic firm to a foreign firm for the rights to produce and market its product or to use its trademark/patent rights in a defined geographical area.
Financial Services
Modernization Act of
1999
foreign outsourcing
An act that overturned the section of the Banking Act of 1933 that prohibited commercial banks from selling insurance or performing the functions of investment banks.
firewall
Software and/or hardware designed to prevent unwanted access to a computer or computer system.
first-line (supervisory) management
Managers who directly supervise nonmanagement employees.
(also contract manufacturing) Contracting with foreign suppliers to produce products, usually at a fraction of the cost of domestic production.
franchise
A licensing arrangement under which a franchisor allows franchisees to use its name, trademark, products, business methods, and other property in exchange for monetary payments and other considerations.
franchise agreement
The contractual arrangement between a franchisor and franchisee that spells
Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
out the duties and responsibilities of both parties.
preparation of financial statements.
Franchise Disclosure
Document (FDD)
geographic segmentation
A detailed description of all aspects of a franchise that the franchisor must provide to the franchisee at least 14 calendar days before the franchise agreement is signed.
Dividing the market into smaller groups based on where consumers live. This process can incorporate countries, cities, or population density as key factors.
franchisee
goods
The party in a franchise relationship that pays for the right to use resources supplied by the franchisor.
Tangible products.
franchisor
The business entity in a franchise relationship that allows others to operate its business using resources it supplies in exchange for money and other considerations.
free trade
The unrestricted movement of goods and services across international borders.
free-rein leaders
Leaders who set objectives for their followers but give them freedom to choose how they will accomplish those goals.
General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade
(GATT)
An international trade treaty designed to encourage worldwide trade among its members.
general partnership
A partnership in which all partners can take an active role in managing the business and have unlimited liability for any claims against the firm.
generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP)
A set of accounting standards that is used in the
grace period
The period of time that the credit card holder has to pay outstanding balances before interest or fees are assessed.
green marketing
Developing and promoting environmentally sound products and practices to gain a competitive edge.
grievance
A complaint by a worker that the employer has violated the terms of the collective bargaining agreement.
gross domestic product
(GDP) The total value of all final goods and services produced within a nation’s physical boundaries over a given period of time.
hacker
A skilled computer user who uses his or her expertise to gain unauthorized access to the computer (or computer system) of others, sometimes with malicious intent.
hardware
The physical tools and equipment used to collect, input, store, organize, and process data and to distribute information.
stores by special sales on a limited number of products, and higher everyday prices on others.
expenses, and net income that resulted from a firm’s operations over an accounting period.
horizontal analysis
independent wholesaling businesses
Analysis of financial statements that compares account values reported on these statements over two or more years to identify changes and trends.
horizontal merger
A combination of two firms that are in the same industry.
human resource (HR) management
Independent distributors that buy products from a range of different businesses and sell those products to a range of different customers.
indirect costs
Costs that are the result of a firm’s general operations and are not directly tied to any specific cost object.
The management function focused on maximizing the effectiveness of the workforce by recruiting world-class talent, promoting career development, and determining workforce strategies to boost organizational effectiveness.
industrial union
human skills
information
The ability to work effectively with and through other people in a range of different relationships.
Data that have been processed in a way that make them meaningful to their user.
hyperinflation
infrastructure
An average monthly inflation rate of more than 50%.
A country’s physical facilities that support economic activity.
immediate predecessors
Activities in a project that must be completed before some other specified activity can begin.
implicit cost
The opportunity cost that arises when a firm uses owner-supplied resources.
importing
Buying products domestically that have been produced or grown in foreign nations.
high/low pricing
income statement
A pricing strategy designed to drive traffic to retail
The financial statement that reports the revenues,
A union comprising workers employed in the same industry.
inflation
A period of rising average prices across the economy.
initial public offering
(IPO)
The first time a company issues stock that may be bought by the general public.
institutional investor
An organization that pools contributions from investors, clients, or depositors and uses these funds to buy stocks and other securities.
integrated marketing communication
The coordination of marketing messages through every promotional vehicle
Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
369
to communicate a unified impression about a product.
intellectual property
Property that is the result of creative or intellectual effort, such as books, musical works, inventions, and computer software.
intercultural communication
Communication among people with differing cultural backgrounds.
interest-based bargaining
A form of collective bargaining that emphasizes cooperation and problem solving in an attempt to find a “win– win” outcome.
internal locus of control
A deep-seated sense that the individual is personally responsible for what happens in his or her life.
internal recruitment
The process of seeking employees who are currently within the firm to fill open positions.
International Monetary
Fund (IMF)
An international organization of 188 member nations that promotes international economic cooperation and stable growth.
Internet
The world’s largest computer network; essentially a network of computer networks all operating under a common set of rules that allow them to communicate with each other.
Internet2 (I2)
A new high-tech Internet with access limited to a consortium of member organizations (and other
370
organizations these members sponsor). I2 utilizes technologies that give it a speed and capacity far exceeding the current
Internet.
job description
intranet
The creation of jobs with more meaningful content, under the assumption that challenging, creative work will motivate employees.
A private network that has the look and feel of the Internet and is navigated using a web browser, but which limits access to a single firm’s employees (or a single organization’s members).
inventory
Stocks of goods or other items held by organizations.
investing
Reducing consumption in the current time period in order to build future wealth.
investment bank
A financial intermediary that specializes in helping firms raise financial capital by issuing securities in primary markets.
IRA
An individual retirement account that provides tax benefits to individuals who are investing for their retirement.
ISO 14000
A family of generic standards for environmental management established by the
International Organization for Standardization.
ISO 9000
A family of generic standards for quality management systems established by the
International Organization for Standardization.
job analysis
The examination of specific tasks that are assigned to each position, independent of who might be holding the job at any specific time.
An explanation of the responsibilities for a specific position.
job enrichment
job specifications
The specific qualifications necessary to hold a particular position.
joint ventures
When two or more companies join forces—sharing resources, risks, and profits, but not actually merging companies—to pursue specific opportunities.
just-in-time (JIT) production
A production system that emphasizes the production of goods to meet actual current demand, thus minimizing the need to hold inventories of finished goods and work in process at each stage of the supply chain.
labor union
A group of workers who have organized to work together to achieve common job-related goals, such as higher wages, better working conditions, and greater job security.
Labor–Management
Relations Act (Taft–
Hartley Act)
Law passed in 1947 that placed limits on union activities, outlawed the closed shop, and allowed states to pass right-to-work laws that made union shops illegal.
laws
Rules that govern the conduct and actions of people
within a society that are enforced by the government.
leading
Directing and motivating people to achieve organizational goals.
lean production
An approach to production that emphasizes the elimination of waste in all aspects of production processes.
leverage ratios
Ratios that measure the extent to which a firm relies on debt financing in its capital structure.
liabilities
Claims that outsiders have against a firm’s assets.
licensing
Purchasing the right to use another company’s brand name or symbol.
limit order
An order to a broker to buy a specific stock only if its price is below a certain level, or to sell a specific stock only if its price is above a certain level.
limited liability
When owners are not personally liable for claims against their firm. Owners with limited liability may lose their investment in the company, but their other personal assets are protected.
limited liability company (LLC)
A form of business ownership that offers both limited liability to its owners and flexible tax treatment.
limited liability partnership (LLP)
A form of partnership in which all partners have the right to participate in
Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
management and have limited liability for company debts.
lockout
limited partnership
logistics
A partnership that includes at least one general partner who actively manages the company and accepts unlimited liability and one limited partner who gives up the right to actively manage the company in exchange for limited liability.
A subset of supply chain management that focuses largely on the tactics involved in moving products along the supply chain.
line-and-staff organizations
An employer-initiated work stoppage.
loss
When a business incurs expenses that are greater than its revenue.
loss-leader pricing
Organizations with line managers forming the primary chain of authority in the company, and staff departments working alongside line departments.
Closely related to high/low pricing, loss-leader pricing means pricing a handful of items—or loss leaders— temporarily below cost to drive traffic.
line extensions
M1 money supply
Similar products offered under the same brand name.
line managers
Managers who supervise the functions that contribute directly to profitability: production and marketing.
line of credit
A financial arrangement between a firm and a bank in which the bank preapproves credit up to a specified limit, provided that the firm maintains an acceptable credit rating.
line organizations
Organizations with a clear, simple chain of command from top to bottom.
liquid asset
An asset that can quickly be converted into cash with little risk of loss.
liquidity ratios
Financial ratios that measure the ability of a firm to obtain the cash it needs to pay its short-term debt obligations as they come due.
Includes all currency plus checking accounts and traveler’s checks.
M2 money supply
Includes all of M1 money supply plus most savings accounts, money market accounts, and certificates of deposit.
develop the skills they need to move into leadership positions.
managerial (or management) accounting
The branch of accounting that provides reports and analysis to managers to help them make informed business decisions.
market makers
Securities dealers that make a commitment to continuously offer to buy and sell the stock of a specific corporation listed on the NASDAQ exchange or traded in the OTC market.
market niche
A small segment of a market with fewer competitors than the market as a whole. Market niches tend to be quite attractive to small firms.
market order
An order telling a broker to buy or sell a specific security at the best currently available price.
macroeconomics
market segmentation
The study of a country’s overall economic dynamics, such as the employment rate, the gross domestic product, and taxation policies.
market share
malware
A general term for malicious software, such as spyware, computer viruses, and worms.
management
Achieving the goals of an organization through planning, organizing, leading, and controlling organizational resources including people, money, and time.
management development
Programs to help current and potential executives
Dividing potential customers into groups of similar people, or segments.
The percentage of a market controlled by a given marketer.
marketing
An organizational function and a set of processes for creating, communicating, and delivering value to customers and for managing customer relationships in ways that benefit the organization and its stakeholders.
marketing concept
A business philosophy that makes customer satisfaction—now and in the
future—the central focus of the entire organization.
marketing mix
The blend of marketing strategies for product, price, distribution, and promotion.
marketing plan
A formal document that defines marketing objectives and the specific strategies for achieving those objectives.
marketing research
The process of gathering, interpreting, and applying information to uncover marketing opportunities and challenges, and to make better marketing decisions.
Maslow’s hierarchy of needs theory
A motivation theory that suggests that human needs fall into a hierarchy and that as each need is met, people become motivated to meet the next-highest need in the pyramid.
mass customization
The creation of products tailored for individual consumers on a mass basis.
master budget
A presentation of an organization’s operational and financial budgets that represents the firm’s overall plan of action for a specified time period.
matrix organizations
Organizations with a flexible structure that brings together specialists from different areas of the company to work on individual projects on a temporary basis.
maturity date
The date when a bond will come due.
Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
371
mediation
A method of dealing with an impasse between labor and management by bringing in a neutral third party to help the two sides reach agreement by reducing tensions and making suggestions for possible compromises.
merchant wholesalers
Independent distributors who take legal possession, or title, of the goods they distribute.
merger
A corporate restructuring that occurs when two formerly independent business entities combine to form a new organization.
microeconomics
The study of smaller economic units such as individual consumers, families, and individual businesses.
middle management
Managers who supervise lower-level managers and report to a higher-level manager.
mission
The definition of an organization’s purpose, values, and core goals, which provides the framework for all other plans.
mixed economies
Economies that embody elements of both planned and market-based economic systems.
modes of transportation
The various transportation options—such as planes, trains, and railroads—for moving products through the supply chain.
monetary policy
Federal Reserve decisions that shape the economy by
372
influencing interest rates and the supply of money.
money
Anything generally accepted as a medium of exchange, a measure of value, or a means of payment.
money market mutual funds
A mutual fund that pools funds from many investors and uses these funds to purchase very safe, highly liquid securities.
money supply
national brands
Brands that the producer owns and markets.
National Labor
Relations Act (Wagner
Act)
Landmark pro-labor law enacted in 1935. This law made it illegal for firms to discriminate against union members and required employers to recognize certified unions and bargain with them in good faith.
natural monopoly
A market structure with many competitors selling differentiated products. Barriers to entry are low.
A market structure with one company as the supplier of a product because the nature of that product makes a single supplier more efficient than multiple, competing ones. Most natural monopolies are government sanctioned and regulated.
monopoly
negligence
A market structure with one producer completely dominating the industry, leaving no room for any significant competitors. Barriers to entry tend to be virtually insurmountable.
An unintentional tort that arises due to carelessness or irresponsible behavior.
The total amount of money within the overall economy.
monopolistic competition
multichannel retailing
Providing multiple distribution channels for consumers to buy a product.
multilevel marketing
(MLM)
Involves hiring independent contractors to sell products to their personal network of friends and colleagues and to recruit new salespeople in return for a percentage of their commissions.
mutual fund
An institutional investor that raises funds by selling shares to investors and uses the accumulated funds to buy a portfolio of many different securities.
net asset value per share
The value of a mutual fund’s securities and cash holdings minus any liabilities, divided by the number of shares of the fund outstanding.
net income
The difference between the revenue a firm earns and the expenses it incurs in a given time period.
net present value (NPV)
The sum of the present values of expected future cash flows from an investment, minus the cost of that investment.
noise
Any interference that causes the message you send to be different from the message your audience understands.
nondiscretionary payments
Expenditures that the spender has little or no control over.
nonprofit corporation
A corporation that does not seek to earn a profit and differs in several fundamental respects from C corporations.
nonprofits
Business-like establishments that employ people and produce goods and services with the fundamental goal of contributing to the community rather than generating financial gain.
nonverbal communication
Communication that does not use words. Common forms of nonverbal communication include gestures, posture, facial expressions, tone of voice, and eye contact.
North American Free
Trade Agreement
(NAFTA)
The treaty among the United
States, Mexico, and Canada that eliminated trade barriers and investment restrictions over a 15-year period starting in 1994.
observation research
Marketing research that does not require the researcher to interact with the research subject.
odd pricing
The practice of ending prices in numbers below even dollars and cents in order to create a perception of greater value.
offshoring
Moving production or support processes to foreign countries.
Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
oligopoly
organizing
A market structure with only a handful of competitors selling products that can be similar or different. Barriers to entry are typically high.
Determining a structure for both individual jobs and the overall organization.
on-the-job training
A training approach that requires employees to simply begin their jobs—sometimes guided by more experienced employees—and to learn as they go.
open market operations
The Federal Reserve function of buying and selling government securities, which include treasury bonds, notes, and bills.
open shop
An employment arrangement in which workers are not required to join a union or pay union dues.
operating budgets
Budgets that communicate an organization’s sales and production goals and the resources needed to achieve these goals.
operational planning
Very specific, short-term planning that applies tactical plans to daily, weekly, and monthly operations.
operations management
Managing all of the activities involved in creating value by producing goods and services and distributing them to customers.
opportunity cost
The opportunity of giving up the second-best choice when making a decision.
organization chart
A visual representation of the company’s formal structure.
orientation
The first step in the training and development process, designed to introduce employees to the company culture and provide key administrative information.
out-of-pocket cost
A cost that involves the payment of money or other resources.
outsourcing
Arranging for other organizations to perform supply chain functions that were previously performed internally.
over-the-counter (OTC) market
The market where securities that are not listed on exchanges are traded.
owners’ equity
The claims a firm’s owners have against their company’s assets (often called “stockholders’ equity” on balance sheets of corporations).
par value (of a bond)
The value of a bond at its maturity; what the issuer promises to pay the bondholder when the bond matures.
partnership
A voluntary agreement under which two or more people act as co-owners of a business for profit.
passive voice tends to be less effective for business communication.
patent
A legal monopoly that gives an inventor the exclusive right over an invention for a limited time period.
penetration pricing
A new product pricing strategy that aims to capture as much of the market as possible through rock-bottom prices.
planned obsolescence
The strategy of deliberately designing products to fail in order to shorten the time between purchases.
planning
Determining organizational goals and action plans for how to achieve those goals.
poka-yokes
Simple methods incorporated into a production process designed to eliminate or greatly reduce errors.
performance appraisal
positioning statement
A formal feedback process that requires managers to give their subordinates feedback on a one-to-one basis, typically by comparing actual results to expected results.
preferred stock
personal selling
The person-to-person presentation of products to potential buyers.
pharming
A scam that seeks to steal identities by routing Internet traffic to fake websites.
phishing
A scam in which of officiallooking emails are sent to individuals in an attempt to get them to divulge private information such as passwords, usernames, and account numbers.
physical distribution
The actual, physical movement of products along the distribution pathway.
passive voice
picketing
Sentence construction in which the subject does not do the action expressed by the verb; rather, the subject is acted upon (e.g.,
The taxes were done by our accountant.). The
A union tactic during labor disputes in which union members walk near the entrance of the employer’s place of business, carrying signs to publicize their position and concerns.
A brief statement that articulates how the marketer would like the target market to envision a product relative to the competition.
A type of stock that gives its holder preference over common stockholders in terms of dividends and claims on assets.
present value
The amount of money that, if invested today at a given rate of interest (called the discount rate), would grow to become some future amount in a specified number of time periods.
primary data
New data that marketers compile for a specific research project.
primary securities market
The market where newly issued securities are traded.
The primary market is where the firms that issue securities raise additional financial capital.
principal
A party who agrees to have someone else (called an agent) act on his or her behalf.
Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
373
principal–agent relationship
A relationship in which one party, called the principal, gives another party, called the agent, the authority to act in place of, and bind, the principal when dealing with third parties.
private placement
A primary market issue that is negotiated between the issuing corporation and a small group of accredited investors.
privatization
The process of converting government-owned businesses to private ownership.
probationary period
A specific time frame (typically three to six months) during which a new hire can prove his or her worth on the job before he or she becomes permanent.
process
A set of related activities that transform inputs into outputs, thus adding value.
producer price index
(PPI)
A measure of inflation that evaluates the change over time in the weighted-average wholesale prices.
product
Anything that an organization offers to satisfy consumer needs and wants, including both goods and services.
product consistency
How reliably a product delivers its promised level of quality.
product differentiation
The attributes that make a good or service different from other products that compete to meet the same or similar customer needs.
374
product features
The specific characteristics of a product.
consumer purchase decisions through information, persuasion, and reminders.
product life cycle
promotional channels
A pattern of sales and profits that typically changes over time.
Specific marketing communication vehicles, including traditional tools, such as advertising, sales promotion, direct marketing, and personal selling, and newer tools such as product placement, advergaming, and
Internet minimovies.
product line
A group of products that are closely related to each other, either in terms of how they work or the customers they serve.
property
from the ultimate consumers so that they “pull” your products through the distribution channels by actively seeking them.
pure competition
A market structure with many competitors selling virtually identical products. Barriers to entry are quite low.
pure goods
Products that do not include any services.
pure services
The total number of product lines and individual items sold by a single firm.
The legal right of an owner to exclude nonowners from having control over a particular resource.
product placement
protectionism
The paid integration of branded products into movies, television, and other media.
National policies designed to restrict international trade, usually with the goal of protecting domestic businesses.
productivity
psychographic segmentation
A marketing approach that involves motivating distributors to heavily promote—or
“push”—a product to the final consumers, usually through heavy trade promotion and personal selling.
product mix
The basic relationship between the production of goods and services (output) and the resources needed to produce them (input) calculated via the following equation: output/input 5 productivity.
profit
The money that a business earns in sales (or revenue), minus expenses, such as the cost of goods and the cost of salaries. Revenue 2
Expenses 5 Profit (or Loss).
Dividing the market into smaller groups based on consumer attitudes, interests, values, and lifestyles.
public offering
A primary market issue in which new securities are offered to any investors who are willing and able to purchase them.
public relations (PR)
The gap between the cost and the price of an item on a per-product basis.
The ongoing effort to create positive relationships with all of a firm’s different “publics,” including customers, employees, suppliers, the community, the general public, and the government.
profitability ratios
publicity
Ratios that measure the rate of return a firm is earning on various measures of investment.
Unpaid stories in the media that influence perceptions about a company or its products.
promotion
pull strategy
Marketing communication designed to influence
A marketing approach that involves creating demand
profit margin
Products that do not include any goods.
push strategy
quality level
How well a product performs its core functions.
quality of life
The overall sense of wellbeing experienced by either an individual or a group.
quotas
Limitations on the amount of specific products that may be imported from certain countries during a given time period.
radio frequency identification (RFID)
A technology that stores information on small microchips that can transmit the information when they are within range of a special reader.
recession
An economic downturn marked by a decrease in the
GDP for two consecutive quarters.
Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
recovery
risk-return trade-off
A period of rising economic growth and employment.
The observation that financial opportunities that offer high rates of return are generally riskier than opportunities that offer lower rates of return.
registration statement
A long, complex document that firms must file with the SEC when they sell securities through a public offering.
reserve requirement
A rule set by the Fed, which specifies the minimum amount of reserves (or funds) a bank must hold, expressed as a percentage of the bank’s deposits.
retailers
Distributors that sell products directly to the ultimate users, typically in small quantities, that are stored and merchandized on the premises.
retained earnings
The part of a firm’s net income it reinvests.
revenue
Increases in a firm’s assets that result from the sale of goods, provision of services, or other activities intended to earn income.
revolving credit agreement
A guaranteed line of credit in which a bank makes a binding commitment to provide a business with funds up to a specified credit limit at any time during the term of the agreement.
robot
A reprogrammable machine that is capable of manipulating materials, tools, parts, and specialized devices in order to perform a variety of tasks.
S corporation
A form of corporation that avoids double taxation by having its income taxed as if it were a partnership.
salaries
The pay that employees receive over a fixed period, most often weekly or monthly.
sale
A transaction in which the title (legal ownership) to a good passes from one party to another in exchange for a price.
sales promotion
Marketing activities designed to stimulate immediate sales activity through specific short-term programs aimed at either consumers or distributors.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
A state law that makes union shops illegal within that state’s borders.
Federal legislation passed in 2002 that sets higher ethical standards for public corporations and accounting firms. Key provisions limit conflict-ofinterest issues and require financial officers and CEOs to certify the validity of their financial statements.
risk
savings account
The degree of uncertainty regarding the outcome of a decision.
An interest-bearing account holding funds not needed to meet regular expenditures.
right-to-work law
savings and loan association
A depository institution that has traditionally obtained most of its funds by accepting savings deposits, which have been used primarily to make mortgage loans.
scope of authority (for an agent)
The extent to which an agent has the authority to act for and represent the principal.
SCORE (Service Corps of Retired Executives)
An organization—affiliated with the Small Business
Administration—that provides free, comprehensive business counseling for small business owners from qualified volunteers.
secondary data
Existing data that marketers gather or purchase for a research project.
secondary securities market
The market where previously issued securities are traded.
Securities Act of 1933
The first major federal law regulating the securities industry. It requires firms issuing new stock in a public offering to file a registration statement with the SEC.
Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934
A federal law dealing with securities regulation that established the Securities and Exchange Commission to regulate and oversee the securities industry.
Securities and
Exchange Commission
The federal agency with primary responsibility for regulating the securities industry.
securities broker
A financial intermediary that acts as an agent for investors who want to buy and sell financial securities. Brokers earn commissions and fees for the services they provide.
securities dealer
A financial intermediary that participates directly in securities markets, buying and selling stocks and other securities for its own account.
services
Intangible products.
servicescape
The environment in which a customer and service provider interact.
sexual harassment
Workplace discrimination against a person based on his or her gender.
Six Sigma
An approach to quality improvement characterized by very ambitious quality goals, extensive training of employees, and a long-term commitment to working on quality-related issues.
skimming pricing
A new product pricing strategy that aims to maximize profitability by offering new products at a premium price.
Small Business
Administration (SBA)
An agency of the federal government designed to maintain and strengthen the nation’s economy by aiding, counseling, assisting, and protecting the interests of small businesses.
Small Business
Development Centers
(SBDCs)
Local offices—affiliated with the Small Business Administration—that provide
Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
375
comprehensive management assistance to current and prospective small business owners.
social audit
A systematic evaluation of how well a firm is meeting its ethics and social responsibility goals.
social responsibility
The obligation of a business to contribute to society.
socialism
An economic system based on the principle that the government should own and operate key enterprises that directly affect public welfare.
sociocultural differences
speed-to-market
The rate at which a new product moves from conception to commercialization.
sponsorship
A deep association between a marketer and a partner
(usually a cultural or sporting event), which involves promotion of the sponsor in exchange for either payment or the provision of goods.
spontaneous financing
Financing that arises during the natural course of business without the need for special arrangements.
spyware
Differences among cultures in language, attitudes, and values.
Software that is installed on a computer without the user’s knowledge or permission to track the user’s behavior.
software
staff managers
Programs that provide instructions to a computer so that it can perform a desired task.
Managers who supervise the functions that provide advice and assistance to the line departments.
sole proprietorship
stakeholders
A form of business ownership with a single owner who usually actively manages the company.
Any groups that have a stake— or a personal interest— in the performance and actions of an organization.
spam
Standard & Poor’s 500
Unsolicited email advertisements usually sent to very large numbers of recipients, many of whom may have no interest in the message.
A stock index based on prices of 500 major U.S. corporations in a variety of industries and market sectors.
span of control
The quality and quantity of goods and services available to a population.
Span of management; refers to the number of people a manager supervises.
specific performance
A remedy for breach of contract in which the court orders the party committing
376
the breach to do exactly what the contract specifies.
standard of living
statement of cash flows
The financial statement that identifies a firm’s sources and uses of cash in a given accounting period.
statute of frauds
A requirement that certain types of contracts must be in writing in order to be enforceable.
statute of limitations
The time period within which a legal action must be initiated.
performance in each key area of the organization.
strategic planning
High-level, long-term planning that establishes a vision for the company, defines long-term objectives and priorities, determines broad action steps, and allocates resources.
statutory close (or closed) corporation
strategies
A corporation with a limited number of owners that operates under simpler, less formal rules than a C corporation.
Action plans that help the organization achieve its goals by forging the best fit between the firm and the environment.
statutory law
strike
Law that is the result of legislative action.
A work stoppage initiated by a union.
stock (or securities) exchange
structured interviews
An organized venue for trading stocks and other securities that meet its listing requirements.
stock index
A statistic that tracks how the prices of a specific set of stocks have changed.
stockholder
An owner of a corporation.
store brands
Brands that the retailer both produces and distributes
(also called private-label brands).
strategic alliance
An agreement between two or more firms to jointly pursue a specific opportunity without actually merging their businesses. Strategic alliances typically involve less formal, less encompassing agreements than partnerships.
strategic goals
Concrete benchmarks that managers can use to measure
An interviewing approach that involves developing a list of questions beforehand and asking the same questions in the same order to each candidate.
supply
The quantity of products that producers are willing to offer for sale at different market prices.
supply chain
All organizations, processes, and activities involved in the flow of goods from the raw materials to the final consumer.
supply chain management (SCM)
Planning and coordinating the movement of products along the supply chain, from the raw materials to the final consumers.
supply curve
The graphed relationship between price and quantity from a supplier standpoint.
Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
survey research
Marketing research that requires the researcher to interact with the research subject.
sustainable development
Doing business to meet the needs of the current generation, without harming the ability of future generations to meet their needs.
SWOT analysis
A strategic planning tool that helps management evaluate an organization in terms of internal strengths and weakness, and external opportunities and threats.
system software
Software that performs the critical functions necessary to operate the computer at the most basic level.
tactical planning
More specific, shorterterm planning that applies strategic plans to specific functional areas.
target market
The group of people who are most likely to buy a particular product.
tariffs
Taxes levied against imports.
technical skills
Expertise in a specific functional area or department.
telecommuting
Working remotely—most often from home—and connecting to the office via phone lines and/or broadband networks.
Theory X and Theory Y
A motivation theory that suggests that management attitudes toward workers fall
into two opposing categories based on management assumptions about worker capabilities and values.
time value of money
The principle that a dollar received today is worth more than a dollar received in the future.
title
Legal ownership.
Title VII
A portion of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964 that prohibits discrimination in hiring, firing, compensation, apprenticeships, training, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment based on race, color, religion, sex, or national origin for employers with 15 or more workers.
top management
Managers who set the overall direction of the firm, articulating a vision, establishing priorities, and allocating time, money, and other resources.
tort
A private wrong that results in physical or mental harm to an individual, or damage to that person’s property.
total quality management (TQM)
An approach to quality improvement that calls for everyone within an organization to take responsibility for improving quality and emphasizes the need for a long-term commitment to continuous improvement.
trade deficit
union shop
Shortfall that occurs when the total value of a nation’s imports is higher than the total value of its exports.
An employment arrangement in which a firm can hire nonunion workers, but these workers must join the union within a specified time period to keep their jobs.
trade promotion
Marketing activities designed to stimulate wholesalers and retailers to push specific products more aggressively over the short term.
trade surplus
universal ethical standards
Ethical norms that apply to all people across a broad spectrum of situations.
Overage that occurs when the total value of a nation’s exports is higher than the total value of its imports.
utility
trademark
value
A mark, symbol, word, phrase, or motto used to identify a company’s goods.
The relationship between the price of a good or a service and the benefits that it offers its customers.
trading bloc
A group of countries that have reduced or even eliminated tariffs, allowing for the free flow of goods among the member nations.
U.S. Treasury bills
(T-bills)
Short-term marketable IOUs issued by the U.S. federal government.
underwriting
An arrangement under which an investment banker agrees to purchase all shares of a public offering at an agreed-upon price.
unemployment rate
The percentage of people in the labor force over age 16 who do not have jobs and are actively seeking employment.
trade credit
Uniform Commercial
Code (UCC)
Spontaneous financing granted by sellers when they deliver goods and services to customers without requiring immediate payment.
A uniform act governing the sale of goods, leases, warranties, transfer of funds, and a variety of other businessrelated activities.
The ability of goods and services to satisfy consumer
“wants.”
value chain
The network of relationships that channels the flow of inputs, information, and financial resources through all of the processes directly or indirectly involved in producing goods and services and distributing them to customers.
variable costs
Costs that vary directly with the level of production.
venture capital firms
Companies that invest in start-up businesses with high growth potential in exchange for a share of ownership.
vertical integration
Performance of processes internally that were previously performed by other organizations in a supply chain.
vertical merger
A combination of firms at different stages in the production of a good or service.
Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
377
vesting period
wages
whistle-blowers
A specified period of time for which an employee must work for an employer in order to receive the full advantage of certain retirement benefits.
The pay that employees receive in exchange for the number of hours or days that they work.
Employees who report their employer’s illegal or unethical behavior to either the authorities or the media.
viral marketing
Websites that incorporate interactive and collaborative features to create a richer, more interesting, and more useful experience for their users.
An Internet marketing strategy that tries to involve customers and others not employed by the seller in activities that help promote the product.
voluntary export restraints (VERs)
Limitations on the amount of specific products that one nation will export to another nation.
378
Web 2.0
wheel of retailing
A classic distribution theory that suggests that retail firms and retail categories become more upscale as they go through their life cycles.
wholesalers
Distributors that buy products from producers and sell them to other businesses or nonfinal users such as hospitals, nonprofits, and the government.
World Bank
An international cooperative of 189 member countries, working together to reduce poverty in the developing world.
World Trade
Organization (WTO)
A permanent global institution to promote international trade and to settle international trade disputes.
World Wide Web
The service that allows computer users to easily access and share information on the
Internet in the form of text, graphics, video, apps, and animation.
worm
Malicious computer software that, unlike viruses, can spread on its own without being attached to other files.
Glossary
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
INDEX
A
ABC (activity-based costing),
145
Abercrombie & Fitch, 203
Aberdeen Group, 325 absolute advantage, 42 accessory equipment, 211 accountant career, 146 accidental inventions, 124 accountants roles, 129–130 government accountants,
130 management accountants,
130 public accountants, 129 accountants, types of,
129–130 accounting, 128–146. See also financial statements budgeting, 141–143 defined, 128 ethics in, 132–134 financial, 130–131 managerial accounting,
143–145 types of accountants,
129–130 users of, 128–129 accounting equation, 132 accounting users, 128–129 creditors, 129 employees, 129 government agencies, 129 managers, 128 stockholders, 128 suppliers, 129 accounts receivable, 132,
164–165 accredited investors, 181 accrual-basis accounting, 135 accumulated depreciation,
133 acquiring firm, 102 acquisition, 102–103 acquisitions, corporate,
102–103 active listening, 79–80 active voice, 83 activity-based costing (ABC),
145 activity ratios. See asset management ratios actual value in marketing, 194
actual product, 210 ad age marketer, 192
Adams, J. Stacy, 257 adverse opinion, 139 advertising on internet, 296 administrative expenses, 136
Adobe, 259 advergaming, 225 adverse auditor opinion, 139 advertising, 221, 226 on the Internet, 223–224,
297–298 affirmative action, 284
Affordable Care Act, 121 age bias, 83 agents and brokers, 240 agents, as wholesalers, 239,
240 aging population, 14 agriculture market, 28
Aichi Steel shut, 165
AIG insurance, 22, 62, 66
Airbnb, 7, 297
AllBusiness.com, 124
Allen, Paul, 113
Allergan, 131
Amazon, 10, 40, 45, 115,
118, 187, 194–195,
214, 238, 240, 242,
245, 254, 288, 292
Amazon Prime, 191
Amazon Prime Air, 238
Amazon Web Services
(AWS), 293
American customer satisfaction index, 195
American Dream, 33
American Idol, 225
American Marketing
Association, 190
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, 21
Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990, 284
Anders, Jason, 292
Andreessen, Marc, 114 angel investors, 118–119, 155
Apple, 5, 7, 10–11, 40,
45, 67, 94, 99–100,
115–116, 135, 157,
176, 182, 185, 187,
192, 194, 204, 208,
215, 218, 224, 245,
247–249, 268, 286,
292, 297, 300, 309,
315, 318
Anheuser-Busch, 203
Anything Left-Handed, 120
Apple, 10, 67, 214, 286 and marketing, 194, 207 ownership utility of, 191 skimming pricing of, 247
Apple Angst, 67 applications software, 288 apprenticeships, 278 appraisal goofs, 279 apprentice ship programs, 278
Arch Coal, 159
Armstrong, Lance, 79
Arthur Anderson, 66 articles of incorporation, 93
Ash, Mary Kay, 115 ask price, 183 assessing employee performance, 279 asset management ratios, 152 asset-backed commercial paper, 158 assets, 131 acquiring and managing,
163–165 association of small business development centers,
107
AstraZeneca, 131
As You Sow, 73
A to Z Wineworks, 69 attention span, 4 augmented product, 210 autocratic leaders, 267 auto industry bailout, 21, 62 automation, 318 average collection period,
152
Avon Corporation, 71
Avon Walk for Breast
Cancer, 193
B baby boomers, retirements of, 4, 11, 272 background checks, 277–278 bailouts by the federal government, 9, 62, 173
Bailey, Edward P., 85 balance of payments, 43 balance of payments deficit, 43
balance of payments surplus,
43 balance of trade, 43–44 balance sheet, 132 assets, 132 example of, 132 liabilities, 132–133
McDonald’s corporation,
133 owners’ (or stockholders’) equity, 133–134
Baldrige National Quality
Program, 321–322
Banana Republic, 214 bank failures, 173
Banking Act (1933), 174
Bank of America, 200
Banks, Steven, 293
Barger, David, 119
Barrett, Michael, 302
B2B (business-to-business) e-commerce, 295–299 marketers, 195, 196
B2C (business-to-consumer) e-commerce, 295–296 marketers, 194–195
B-Corps, 68
Bear Stearns, 20, 22
Batman and Frozen, 215 beach junket, 62
Bean, Chuck, 7
Beck, Julie, 308 behavioral segmentation, 197 benefit corporations, 68 accounting practices of,
139 benefits, 280–283
Bell, Taco, 317 benefits, 280
Berkshire Hathaway, 158, 178
Bernanke, Ben, 24
Bernbach, Bill, 220
Best Companies to Work
For, 258
Best Global Brands, 214
B2G (business-togovernment) e-commerce, 295 better listening tips, 80
Bezos, Jeff, 115 bias, 82 bias in communications,
82–83 bid/ask spread, 183
Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
379
bid price, 183 bid price of stock, 183
Bidwell, Matthew, 276 big ideas, 222
Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation, 63
Billionaire Warren Buffett’s company, 158
Birch, David, 120
Blackford, Chris, 322 black hat hackers, 301
Blades, Michael, 322
BlendTec, 223
Bloch, Ethan, 170 block paragraphs, 86
Bloomingdale’s, 203 board of directors role of,
99–100
Board of Governors, 23, 25 board of directors, 99–100 body language barriers, 77.
See also communi­ cation barriers
Boeing aerospace company,
278
Boeing Military Aircraft,
278
Bogusky, Alex, 223
Bond, James, 224 bonds, 177 corporate, 158
Bono (musician and humanitarian), 39
“bottom line” of a financial statement, 136 bottom-up budgeting, 142 boosting volume, 245 creating prestige, 247 everyday low pricing
(EDLP), 245–246 high/low pricing, 246 loss-leader pricing,
246–247 matching the competition,
247 penetration pricing, 245 bottom-up/participatory budgeting, 142
Bowie Bonds, 184
Bowie, David, 184
Braiker, Brian, 89
Braintree, 298 branded governments, 4 brand equity, 214 brand extensions, 215 branding, 214–216 brand manager, 207 brand name, 214–215 brands, 211
Branson, Richard, 257 breakeven analysis, 248–250
380
Brexit, 55
Bribery in business, 8 and international business,
49, 71–72
Brighter Naming, 214
Brazilian oil company, 177 breakeven analysis, 248
Brexit, 55 bribery, 49
BRIC countries, 40
Brin, Sergey, 113
British exit from European
Union (EU), 55
British Petroleum (BP), 156,
323
British legal and economic system, 9 broadband and smartphone internet access, 289 broadband Internet connection, 289 brokers, 183–184
Brooks, Bill, 230 budgetary slack, 142 budget deficit, 22 budget surplus, 22 budgetary slack, 142 budgeted balance sheet, 142,
154 budgeted income statement,
142, 154 budgeting, 141 and promotions, 233 uses of, 155
Budweiser, 222
Buffett, Warren, 185 building profitable customer connections, 190 the customer, 194–195 customer behavior,
201–202 marketing research,
202–205 marketing strategy,
195–201 marketing, 190–194 social responsibility and technology, 205–206 bulleted lists in communications, 85 bulleted lists, 86–87
Bureau of the Census, 106
Burger King, 226
Burton website, 12
Bush,George W., 23 business at breakneck speed,
2–4 basics, 5–6 environment, 8–16 history of, 6–7 production factors, 7–8
nonprofits and economy, 7 and personal, 16 business buyer behavior, 202 business communication, 76 excellent communication skills, 76–77 high-impact messages,
84–87 nonverbal communication,
78–80 the right channel, 80 the right words, 80–83 verbal presentations,
87–90 business cycle, 34 contraction, 34 expansion, 34 recovery, 34 business economist, 37 business environment, 8 business ethics, 60 business ethics and social responsibility, 58 close relationship, 58–60 in global arena, 71–73 monitoring, 73 multiple touchpoints, 61–64 not an oxymoron, 60–61 business format franchises,
106 business formation, 92 business ownership options, 92–95 corporations, 98–103 franchising, 106–110 limited liability company,
104–106 partnerships, 96–98 sole proprietorships, 95–96 business intelligence systems, 294 business marketers (B2B),
196 business plan, for small businesses, 122 business market segmentation, 197 customer-based, 197 geographic, 197 product-use–based, 197 business plan elements, 123 business product categories,
211 accessory equipment, 211 business services, 211 component parts and processed materials, 211 installations, 211 maintenance/repair/operating products, 211 raw materials, 211
business products, 210 business services, 211 business software alliance,
304 business success tools, 122 access SBA Resources,
123 develop a business plan,
123 educate yourself, 122–123 gain experience, 122 learn from others, 122 business technology, 11 business to-consumer (B2C),
295 e-commerce, 295–299 marketers, 196–197 business, 5 business-to-business (B2B),
295 e-commerce, 295,
299–300 marketers, 196–197 selling, 14 business-to-government
(B2G) e-commerce, 295
BusinessWeek, 214 buybacks of stock, 164 buy-and-hold strategy, 186 buying and holding securities, 186–187 buzz marketing, 226 bylaws, corporate, 99
C
CAD/CAM (computer-aided design/computeraided manufacturing), 318
CAD (computer-aided design), 318
CAE (computer-aided engineering), 318
CAM (computer-aided manufacturing), 319
Candler, Asa, 255
CAN-SPAM Act (Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited
Pornography and
Marketing Act), 301
Cafe X, 318 cafeteria-style benefits, 281
Camaro, Chevy, 196 cannibalization, 214 capital expenditure budget,
142 capital gains, 176 capital structure, 159
Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
capital, 8 capital budgeting, 165 accounting, 166–167 evaluation, 165 net present value, 167 risk-return trade-off revisited, 167 capital expenditure budget,
142 capital gains or losses, 176 capitalism, 26 capital structure, 159–163 carbon footprint, 70
Carcelle, Ives, 323
CareOne, 224 carve-out, 103 cash, management of,
163–164 cash and carry wholesalers,
240 cash budget, 142, 154 cash equivalent, 151, 163 category killer retail stores,
241 cashless economy, 139 cause-related marketing, 68
C2C (consumer-to-consumer) e-commerce, 295
C corporation, 98 advantages of, 100 board of directors role,
99–100 corporate restructuring,
102–103 corporation types, 102 disadvantages of, 100–102 formation of, 99 ownership of, 99 cell phones and economic growth, 41–42 etiquette for, 85 spam on, 297 cellular layout, 311
Center for Venture Research, 119 centralization, 264 century bonds, 177 certificate of deposit (CD),
166 certified fraud examiners,
130 certified management accountants, 130 certified public accountant,
130
Challenger, James, 277
Chan, Priscilla, 100
Chan Zuckerberg Initiative
(CZI), 100 chaos, promotion in, 220 channel intermediaries, 237
channel of distribution, 236 channels of communication,
83–84
Character Counts, 60 charitable foundations, 100
CHG Healthcare, 280 chief executive officer
(CEO), 100 worries of, 13
China aging population in,
14 business environment of, 9 economic growth of,
41–42 economic reforms of, 33 and Nike marketing, 199 pollution, war on, 72 social responsibility for products from, 45–46
Chipotle, 156
Chapstick, 196
Chen, Jenn, 170
Chick-fil-A, 107
China’s Skyscraper Curse,
174
Churchill, Winston, 86
Civil Rights Act of 1964, 283
CIM (computer-integrated manufacturing),319 claim on assets, right of, 177
Clarke, Andrew, 131
Clayton Antitrust Act (1914),
28 closed-end fund, 179 closing the sale, 232 clothing company founder,
126 cloud computing, 292–293 cloud-based software, 89
Cobranding, 215 coca-cola, 13 cocaine energy drink, 212 code of ethics, 64
Code of Vendor Conduct, 73 cognitive dissonance, 202
Colgate-Palmolive, 194 color as marketing tool, 198
Colvin, Geoff, 12 commercial banks, 23, 171
Commercial Finance
Association, 157 commercial paper, 157 common markets, 53 common stock, 176 capital gains, 176 preemptive right, 176–177 residual claim right, 177 right to dividends, 176 voting rights, 176 communication, 76
communication barriers,
77–78 communication channels,
80–81 communism, 31
Communist Manifesto, 31 community, social responsibility toward, 68–69 connection economy, the, 7 coordination, 7 exchange of ideas, 7 permission, 7 trust, 7 comparative advantage, 42 comparative financial statements, 141 compensation, 280 competition degrees, 27 monopolistic competition, 28 monopoly, 28–29 oligopoly, 28 pure competition, 27 competitive advantage, 42 competitive edge, 278–279 competitive environment, the, 10 complex value chains, 308 complexity of new products,
218 component parts, 211 compressed workweek, 281 computer viruses, 300 computer-aided design
(CAD), 288, 318 computer-aided design/ computer-aided manufacturing (CAD/
CAM), 318 computer-aided engineering
(CAE), 318 computer-aided manufacturing (CAM), 319 computer-integrated manufacturing
(CIM), 319 computer viruses, 297 conceptual skills, 254–255 confidence of entrepreneurs,
116 conglomerate merger, 103 connection economy, 7 consultative selling, 232 consumer behavior, 201–202 consumer decision-making process, 201
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, 163 consumerism, 65–66 consumer marketers (B2C),
196
consumer market segmentation, 196–197 behavioral, 197 demographic, 196 geographic, 196 psychographic, 196 consumer markets vs business markets, 196 consumer price index (CPI),
35 consumer product categories, 211 convenience products, 211 shopping products, 211 specialty products, 211 unsought products, 211 consumer products, 210 consumer promotion, 228 coupons, 228–229 displays, 230 premiums, 228 promotional products, 228 rebates, 230 samples, 228 consumer rights, 65–66 consumers behavior of, 200–201 pricing perceptions,
249–250 promotion, power of,
220–221 responsibility to, 65–66 consumer-to-consumer
(C2C) e-commerce,
295 consumerism, 65 contingency planning paradigm, 261 contingency planning, 260 contingent workers, 277 continuous innovation, 217 contracts, enforceable, 9
Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited
Pornography and
Marketing Act (CANSPAM Act), 301 convenience products, 211 convenience stores, 241 controlling management,
267 controlling, 252 conversion ratio, 178 convertible securities, 178
Cook, Tim, 66, 100 copyright laws, 304 core benefit, 210 corporate black sheep, 273 the problem, 273–274 the solution, 274 corporate bonds, 159
Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
381
corporate bylaws, 99 corporate philanthropy, 68 corporate responsibility, 69 corporation, 93
C corporations, 98–102 double taxation of, 101 nonprofit, 102 restructuring of, 102–103
S Corporations, 102 statutory close corporations, 102 stock ownership in, 99 corruption, 71 cost-based pricing, 249
Costco, 239, 246 costs of franchising, 108 of health insurance, 121 managerial accounting,
144 costs of goods manufactured,
135 costs of goods sold, 135 countertrade, 44 coupon rate, 178 coupons, 228 covenant, 159 covenants on loans, 159 cowboy culture, 125
CPA firm, 138–139
CPI (consumer price index),
35 creativity and entrepreneurship, 122 credit cards, as start-up funding, 122 creditors, accounting results and, 129 creating and communicating value, 208 innovation and product life cycle, 216–220 meaningful message,
221–223 product differentiation and planning,
211–216 product, 208–211 promotion, 220–221 promotional mix, 223–233 credit unions, 171–172
Cringely, Robert, 246 critical path method (CPM),
313–314 critical thinking, value of,
254 crowdfunding, 118 cultural barriers, 78. See also communication barriers cumulative feature, 177
382
current assets, 163 cash management,
163–164 managing accounts receivable, 164–165 managing inventories, 165 current liabilities, 132 current ratio, 152 current yield, 178 customer-based segmentation, 197 customer benefit package,
310 customer benefits, 213 customer benefits, and product features, 213 customer departmentalization, 266 customers behavior of, 201–202 loyalty of, 195 marketing to, 194–195 service by small businesses, 120 social responsibility toward, 64–66 customer loyalty, 195 customer relationship management (CRM), 194 full partnerships, 194 limited relationships, 194 value, 194 customer satisfaction,
194–195 customer service, 244 customer-based segmentation, 197 cybermediary, 298 cyclical unemployment, 34 czech republic, 32
D
Darwin, Charles, 2 data, 293 data mining, 294 data warehouse, 294
David Weekly Homes, 258
Dayal, Ashvin, 72
DeBeers ads, 223 databases, 293 debt ceiling, 22–23 debt financing, 159 debt ratio. See debt-to-asset ratio
Decca Records, 255 debt-to-asset ratio, 153 decision-making ability, 255 decision support systems
(DSS), 294 deflation, 35
degree of centralization, 264
Delaware, 99 deleveraging, 162 deliveries with drones, 238,
323
Dell, Michael, 113, 223
Dell computers, 221, 236 demand, 31 demand curve, 29 demand-based pricing, 249
Deming chain reaction, 319
Deming, W. Edwards, 319
Deming Chain Reaction,
319, 321
Denny’s, 191 democratic leaders, 267 demographic segmentation,
196 departmentalization, 264 customer, 264 functional, 264 geographical, 264 process, 265 product, 264 department stores, 241 depository institutions, 171 depression, 34
Desai, Mihir, 47 differentiation and planning of products, 212–216
Dietzen, Scott, 294 diffusion, 218 digital native generation. See
Generation Z digital natives, 4 direct channel, 236 direct channels of distribution, 236–237 direct costs, 145 direct investment, 47 foreign, 47 direct response retailing, 242 direct selling, 243 discontinuous innovation,
216–217 discount brokers, 183 discount rate, 167 discount rate changes, 25 discount stores, 241 discrimination against women, 272–273 disinflation, 35
Disney, Walt, 115–116
Disney World, 299 displays as promotions, 230 distribution and pricing,
236–239 distributors, 237–239 physical distribution,
242–245 price setting, 247–250
pricing strategies, 245–247 retailers, 239–243 wholesalers, 239–240 distribution strategy, 236 distributors, 237–238 distributorships, 106
DiversityFran, 107 divestitures, 103 dividends, 176–177 preferred stock, 176 and retained earnings, 158
DJIA (Dow Jones Industrial
Average), 187
Dodd-Frank Act (2010),
162, 176 dollars, exchange rate with euros, 44 domestic corporations, 101 double taxation of corporations, 101
Doulen, Dan, 105
Dodge v. Ford Motor Co., 149
“Doing Business” report, 48 the Dow, 187
Dow Jones Industrial
Average (DJIA), 187 drones for deliveries, 238, 323 oil rig inspections, 323 drop shippers, 240
Drucker, Peter F., 8, 212,
266, 307
Dunkin’ Donuts, 107 durable goods, 308
Düsseldorf airport, 3
Dutch health club, 227 dynamic delivery, 90 dynamically continuous innovation, 217
E earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), 161 earnings per share (EPS),
153
Ebola outbreak (2014), 16
Eck-Witty corporation, 161 eco-friendly companies,
204 e-commerce, 12, 115, 118,
240, 242, 295–299,
322 e-commerce and IT, 295 in B2C Market, 295–298 in B2B Market, 298 economic differences, international, 48 economic environment, the, 9 economic system, 26
Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
economics, 18 capitalism, 26–30 economy management,
21–26 evaluating performance,
33–36 mixed economies, 31–32 navigating a crisis, 18–21 planned economies, 30–31 economics system, 27 economies, 19 emerging, 41 and small businesses,
124–125 effectiveness, 307 efficiency, 307–308 economic turmoil, 9 economy, 18
Ed Rensi, 318 effectiveness, 307 efficiency, 306
Egan, Sophie, 13, 308 electronic bill presentment and payment, 298 electronic communications networks (ECNs), 183 email, 80 e-marketplaces, 298 embargo, 51 emerging economies, 40–41
Emerson, Bill, 259 emissions, tracking, 70 emotional big ideas, 222 employees accounting uses by, 129 compensation of, 280 older, 272 performance of, 279–280 recruiting, 275–276 responsibility to, 64 satisfaction of, 193 and social media, 82 social responsibility to, 64 tattoos on, 283 younger, 272 employment federal government, 33 lawsuits related to, 272,
273, 278, 283 emerging promotional tools,
223 advergaming, 225–226 buzz marketing, 226–227 internet advertising, 223 native advertising, 224 product placement,
224–225 social media, 223 sponsorships, 227
Emerson, Bill, 259 employment level, 33–34
energy, personal, 262 enforceable contracts, 9
Enron fiasco, 15 enterprise resource planning
(ERP), 316 entrepreneur, the, 114 eccentric entrepreneurs,
114 entrepreneurial characteristics, 115 entrepreneurial mindset,
115 entrepreneurial characteristics, 115–116 confidence, 116 energy, 116 self-reliance, 115–116 tolerance of failure, 116 tolerance of uncertainty,
116 vision, 115 entrepreneurs, 5 entrepreneurship, 8 entrepreneurship era, 6–7 entrepreneurship around the world, 125 cultural/political environment, 125 opportunity costs, 125 per capita income, 125 entrepreneurship era, the, 6 environmental scanning, 200
EPS (earnings per share),
152
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
(EEOC), 283
Equal Pay Act of 1963, 283 equilibrium quantity, 30 equilibrium price, 30–31 equity financing, 161 equity theory, 257 e-tailing, 242 ethics in accounting, 132 dilemmas of, 60, 74 and the individual, 61 and information technology, 295–299 marketing to the poor, 72 monitoring, 73 and the organization, 62 universal standards of,
59–60 ethics officers, 74 ethical and legal issues, 303 ethical dilemmas, 60 ethical organization, 63–64
Ethics Resource Center
(ERC), 62–63 ethnicity bias, 82
ethnic markets, targeting, 14
European Union (EU), 53 euros, exchange rate with dollars, 44 event marketing, 192 everyday low pricing
(EDLP), 245 exchange rates, 44 excellent communicators, 76 excellent email tips, 87 exchange rates, 43–44 exchange traded funds
(ETF), 180
Excite, 254 exclusive distribution,
241–242 executive compensation,
133, 272 expectancy theory, 257 expenses, 135–136 federal government, 26 expert system (ES), 295 explicit costs. See out-ofpocket costs exploiting the environment,
309 exporting, 45 external audits, 138 external locus of control,
116 external recruitment, 275 extranets, 291 extravagant human services,
32 eye contact and communication, 78
F
F/A-18 fighter plane flight simulator, 278 face value, 177
Facebook, 5, 10, 61, 66, 80,
82, 85, 100, 114–115,
119, 172, 187, 201,
203, 206, 216, 223–
224, 226–227, 254,
259, 289, 291–292,
296–298 face-to-face meetings, 81 facial expressions and communication, 78 facility layout, 310–311 facility location, 312 factor, 156 factors of production, 8 and international trade, 42 failure of entrepreneurs, tolerance of, 116 of products, 212
of savings and loan associations, 172 of small businesses,
120–121 fair competition, right of, 28
Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938, 283 fake news, 79
Family and Medical Leave
Act of 1993, 284
Fannie Mae, 21
Fargo, Wells, 296 fashionable clothing, 263
Fast Company, 274 fast fashion, 241
Feather, William, 177
“the Fed”, 21, 23–26, 62,
174, 176
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), 238 federal debt, 22
Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC),
25, 174
Federal Family and Medical
Leave Act, 281 federal government. See government federal government revenue and expenses, 23
Federal Open Market
Committee, 25 the Federal Reserve, 9, 19,
21, 23–25, 35, 156,
172, 174–176
Federal Reserve Act (1913),
174
Federal Reserve Banks, 23
Federal Reserve Board, 156
Federal Reserve System (the
Fed), 10, 19, 21, 171 monetary policy of, 26–27
Federal Trade Commission
(FTC), 9, 110 feedback to employees, 279 fiduciary duty, 149 field of membership for credit unions, 170 finance, 149 assets, acquiring and managing, 163–165 capital budgeting,
165–167 decisions, motivators of,
148–151 defined, 149 funding options, 155–158 leverage and capital structure, 158–163 needs of, identifying,
151–155
Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
383
finance quote for a stock, 188 financial accounting,
130–132 ethics, 132 role of, 130–131
Financial Accounting
Foundation, 131
Financial Accounting
Standards Board
(FASB), 131 financial analyst, 168 financial and managerial accounting comparison,
144 financial budgets, 142 financial capital, 148 financial diversification, 178 financial intermediaries, 171 financial leverage, 152 financial managers accounting uses by, 128 and the budgeting process, 154–155 fiduciary duty of, 149 and risk, 150–151 and shareholder value,
150–151 financial markets, 170 defined, 171 financial securities, 176 investments, tracking,
184–185 keeping tabs on market,
187 personal investing,
182–187 regulating, 173–176 role and their key players,
170–173 financial needs identification, 151 budgeted financial statements and cash budget, 153–154 planning tools, 153 ratio analysis, 151–153 financial ratio analysis, 151 financial returns, 150
Financial Services Modernization Act (1999),
175
Financial Stability Oversight
Council, 163, 176
Financial Standards Accounting Board
(FSAB), 130 and smartphones, 137 financial statements, 132 balance sheet, 132 income statement,
134–135
384
interpreting, 138–141 pro forma, 154–155 statement of cash flows,
136–138 statement of retained earnings, 138 stockholders’ equity statement, 138 financing activities, 137 from stockholders,
159–160 finding funds, 155–159 long-term funds, 158–159 short-term financing,
155–158 firewalls, 302 first-line (or supervisory) management, 254
Fiscal Cliff, 22–23 fiscal policy, 22
Fitness First, 227 fixed costs, 145 fixed margin pricing,
249–250 fixed position layout, 311
Fleischmann, Isaac, 116 flexible budget, 143 flextime, 281 footnotes to financial statements, 140
Forbes, 113
Ford, Henry, 115, 193
Ford Motor Company, 223 foreclosures, 20 foreign corporations, 101
Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act, 71 foreign direct investment, 47 foreign franchising, 46 foreign licensing, 45 foreign markets. See world marketplace foreign outsourcing, 45 forms of business ownership,
92–95 corporations, 93–96,
97–103 limited liability companies, 94–95, 104–106 partnerships, 93, 95–98 sole proprietorship, 92–96 total number of, 94 form utility, 191
Fortune, 11, 50 franchise, 106 franchise agreement, 109 franchise disclosure document (FDD), 110 franchisee, 106 franchise store manager,
111
franchising, 106–110 advantages of, 107–108 agreements, entering into,
109–110 costs of, 108 disadvantages of, 108–109 foreign, 46–47, 50,
106–107 sign a franchise agreement, 109–110 in today’s economy,
106–107 versus other forms of business, 105,
121–122 women and minorities in,
107 franchising agreements,
109–110 franchisor, 46, 106 fraud in accounting, 130. See also ethics
Freddie Mac, 21 free market system, 26, 29 demand, 29–30 equilibrium price, 30 supply, 29 free trade, 15 free-rein leaders, 267 frictional unemployment, 34
Fripp, Patricia, 88
Frito-Lay, 222 front-line managers, 255
Fry, Art, 124
FSAB (Financial Standards
Accounting Board),
130
FTSE 100, 187 full-service broker, 183 full-service merchant wholesalers, 239 fun and games, 3 functional departmentalization, 266 fundamental rights of capitalism, 27 fundamental trade-off, 151 funding options for small businesses, 117 angel investors, 118–119 crowdfunding, 118 loans, 118 long-term financing,
158–159 personal resources,
117–118 short-term financing,
155–157 for small businesses,
117–120, 155 venture capital, 119
G
GAAT (generally accepted accounting principles), 130–131, 134
GameStop, 165
Gap, Inc., 214, 243–244
Code of Vendor Conduct,
73
Gates, Bill, 113 gender bias, 82
GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade),
51
GDP (gross domestic product), 34, 39
GE (General Electric), 101
GEM (Global Entrepreneur­ ship Monitor), 125 gender bias, 81–82
General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade
(GATT), 51
General Electric (GE), 101 general mills, 13 general partnerships, 93,
96–97 advantages of, 97 disadvantages of, 97–98 formation of, 96–97 limited, 98 generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP), 130
General Mills, 13 general partnerships, 92,
96–97
Generation Y, 112
Generation Z, 4 geographical departmentalization, 264 geographic segmentation,
196–197 gestures and communication, 78–79 ghoulish fake eyeballs, 45
Gillette, 246
Giving USA Foundation, 68
Glass-Steagall Act, 174–175
Global Brand Champions,
10 global business’s slowing momentum, 40 global competition, 308 global economic crisis,
19–20 global entrepreneurship monitor (GEM), 125 global environment, 15–16 globalization. See world marketplace
Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
global marketing environment, 201 global marketing mix,
199–200 global trade, 43–44 countertrade, 44 balance of payments, 43 balance of trade, 43 exchange rates, 43–44
Global Village, 203
Godin, Seth, 7, 198 gofundme.com, 118 goods, 308 goods vs services, 210
Google, 13, 104, 214
Google Presentations software, 89 government accounting results and, 131 employment with, 33 government accountants,
130
Graham, Paul, 114
Gramm-Bliley-Leach Act,
175 grammar mistakes, 85 graphical user interface
(GUI), 288
Great Depression in 1930s,
34–35 greater financial success, 113
Great Recession, 21–22, 172 green marketing, 70, 205 green practices, 324–325
Greenspan, Alan, 23
Grimmelmann, James, 295 gross domestic product
(GDP), 33 gross profit, 136 growth, investing for, 186 guerrilla marketing, 226
H hackers, 302
Halo effect, 279 handling payments electronically, 298 hardware, 287
Harvard Business Review,
73, 272
Hazlitt, Henry, 22 headings, 86 health insurance, costs of,
121
Heinz Ketchup segmentation, 197
Helix roller coaster, 3
Henry Ford’s assembly line, 6
Hershey, Milton, 212
Hewlett-Packard, 48
high flyers, 62 high-impact messages, 84–87 right tone, strike the, 85 grammar goofs, avoid,
85–86 block paragraphs, use, 86 headings and bulleted lists, use, 86–87 high/low pricing, 246 highly leveraged firms, 162
Hilton, Paris, 192
Hispanic customers, 13
H&M, 214
Hoban, Russell, 76
Hollows, Nicholas, 94
Homan, Dzana, 107
Home Depot, 313
Homeland Security, 16
Hong Kong, business environment of, 16
Hope, Bob, 129 horizontal analysis, 141 horizontal merger, 103 hostile takeover, 102
Hot Topic, 257
Hottovy, R. J., 317
House of Blues, The, 256 human resource (HR) management, 270 challenges, 271–273 legal issues, 283 managers, 273–274 planning, 274–283 human resource planning,
274 human resources, 8 human resources manager,
285 human skills, 254 humor in presentations, 90
Hungary, inflation in, 35
Huntington, Eileen, 107
Hurricane Katrina (2005), 16
Hurricane Sandy (2012), 16 hybrid departmentalization,
265 hyperinflation, 35
Hypertext Markup Language
(HTML), 289
Hyundai Motor Company,
47, 222
I
IBM, 214 idea marketing, 193
Igloo Software Intranet, 290
IKEA, 309
IMF (International Monetary
Fund), 51–52 refugees, research on, 55
immediate predecessors, 314
Immigration Reform and
Control Act of 1986,
284 implicit costs, 144 importing, 45 income statement, 134–136 expenses, 135–136
McDonald’s, 136 net income, 136 revenue, 134–135
Independent Auditor’s
Report, 138 independent wholesaling businesses, 239
India business environment of, 17 economic growth of,
41–42 the Indian Ocean tsunami,
16 indiegogo.com, 118 indirect costs, 145
Indonesian nightclub terrorist attack (2002), 16
Industrial Revolution, the, 6 inflation, 35 information, 293 information technology (IT),
286–304 and decision making, 293 data and information,
293 expert systems, 294–295 good information characteristics, 293 using IT to improve decision making, 294 information technology support specialist,
304 infrastructure, 48 initial public offering (IPO),
181 innovation, 216 in-person presentations, 81 inside intelligence, 143–145 assigning costs to products, 145 cost concepts, 144–145 insider trading, 175 installations, 211 instant skills, 2–3 institutional investors, 99,
173 intangible assets, 132 integrated marketing communication, 220 intellectual property, 304 intensive distribution, 241
intercultural communication, 78 internal auditors, 130 internal locus of control, 116 internal recruitment, 275 internal revenue service
(IRS), 129 international ethics standards boards for accountants (IESBA),
140
International Franchising
Association (IFA),
107 international listening association website, 80 international monetary fund
(IMF), 52 international sports marketing manager, 56 international trade barriers,
47–51 economic differences, 48 political and legal differences, 48–50 sociocultural differences,
47–48 international trade restrictions, 50–51 embargo, 51 quotas, 50 tariffs, 50 voluntary export restraints
(VERs), 50–51 internet and the world wide web, 288–289 internet, 288
Internet2 (I2), 289 interviews, 276 intranets, 291 inventions, accidental, 124 inventories, 312 inventory control, 244,
312–313 additional holding costs,
313 increased risk, 313 protection against stockouts and lost sales,
312 reduced ordering costs, 312 smoother production schedules, 312 tied-up funds, 313 inventory turnover ratio, 152 investing activities, 137 investing in securities, strategies, 185 buying and holding, 186 investing for growth, 186 investing for income, 185
Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
385
investment banks, 173 iPod, 10–11, 116, 205, 218,
247
IRS (Internal Revenue
Service), 129
ISO 14000, 325
ISO 9000 certification, 322
IT department role, 291
J
Jackson, Alphonso Roy, 311
Jackson, Lisa, 309
Jackson, Michael, 4
Jamba Juice, 191
Jantsch, John, 191
Janus Capital Group, 180
Japanese automakers, 13
JetBlue, 245 jetBlue.com, 45
Jiao Songhui, 318 job analysis, 274 job description, 274 job enrichment, 256 autonomy, 257 feedback, 257 skill variety, 256 task identity, 257 job offers, 276 job sharing, 282 job simulations, 278 job specifications, 274
Jobs, Steve, 115, 322
Johnson & Johnson Credo, 64 joint ventures, 47
Jordan, Michael, 199 just-in-time (JIT) delivery, 323 just-in-time (JIT) production,
324
K
Karen Hopkinson Pflug, 320
Karp, David, 114
Kathman, David, 156
Kazoo & Company, 120 keeping tabs on market, 187 stock indices, 187 tracking the performance,
187
Kelleher, Herb, 270
Kellogg, John Harvey, 114
Kellogg’s, 41
Kelly, Gary, 270
Kennedy, John F., 65 key budget components,
142–143
KFC-YUM! brands, 107 kickstarter.com, 118
Kimley-Horn, 259
Kimpton, 259
386
Knapp, David, 41
Knight, Phil, 113
Kraft, 66
Kroc, Ray, 116
Kroger supermarkets, 324
L
Lady Gaga’s YouTube, 224
Lane, Robert, 63 language barriers, 77. See also communication barriers
Las Vegas, marketing by, 192
Lavigne, Avril, 225
Lawrence, Andrew, 174
Laws and ethics, 59 international trade and, 50 laws and regulations, 48–49 lawsuits, 273 layoffs and outsourcing,
271–272 leadership, 267. See also management leadership and power continuum, 267 leading edge vs bleeding edge, 10 leading, 252 lean production, 323
Lee, Jack, 157 legal issues, 283
The Lego Movie, 224
LendingClub.com, 118
Leno, Jay, 254 leverage and capital structure, 159 debt financing, 159 equity financing, 161 financial leverage, 161–163 leverage ratios, 152–153
Levinson, Jay, 191
Levi Strauss & Co., 72 blue jeans, 201 mission statement of, 261 liabilities, 132–133 licensee, 46 licensing, 215
Liddy, Edward, 62 limit orders, 185 limited liability, 94 limited liability company
(LLC), 94, 104 advantages of, 104–105 formation and management, 104 limitations and disadvantages of, 105–106 limited liability partnership
(LLP), 98
limited partnership, 97 limited-service merchant wholesalers, 239–240 line and staff organizations,
265–266 line extensions vs brand extensions, 215 line extensions, 215 line managers, 266 line of credit, 157 limit orders, 185 line-and-staff organizations,
265 line extensions, 215 line managers, 262 line of credit, 157 line organizations, 265 liquid assets, 152 liquidity ratios, 152 loans, 118 long-term, 158 short-term, 156–157 local competition, 308 logistics, 242
London, Jack, 217 long-term debt, 158 long-term financing, 158–159 long-term funds, 158 corporate bonds, 159 direct investments from owners, 158 long-term debt, 158 term loans, 159 long-term liabilities, 132
Los Angeles Times, 4, 276 loss, 5 losses, 5 capital, 176 loss-leader pricing, 246–247 loyalty, customer, 194
Lucas, George, 255
Luckey, Palmer, 254
Lululemon, 70
M
MacDougall, Alice Foote, 190
Ma, Jack, 118 macroeconomics, 18–19
Madden NFL, 154
Madécasse, Chocolatier, 69
Maine Lobster game, 243 maintenance, repair, and operating products,
211 major media categories, 229 major marketing shift, 205 marketing and society,
205–206 technology and marketing, 206
major media categories, 229 major stock price indices,
187 making the right choice, 276 applications, 276 contingent workers, 277 interviews, 276 job offers, 277 references and background checks, 277 testing, 276
Malcolm Baldrige National
Quality Improvement
Act of 1987, 321–322
Malware, 299–300 management, 252–254 management accountants, 130 managerial accounting, 143 managerial planning, 260 managerial/management accounting, 143 manager of new media, 17 manufacturers’ brands. See national brands market basket, 180 market development options, 44 market makers, 183 market niches, 119–120 market order, 184 market segmentation, 195 market timing, 185–186 marketing, 190–194 evolution of, 193 scope of, 192–193 marketing concept, 193 marketing environment,
200–201 competitive, 200 economic, 200 political/legal, 201 social/cultural, 200–201 technological, 201 marketing era, 6, 193 marketing mix, 197–199 distribution strategy, 199 pricing strategy, 198–199 product strategy, 197–198 promotion strategy, 199 marketing plan, 195 marketing research, 202 data types, 204 international perspective,
205 primary research tools,
204 research data comparison,
203
Marlboro Man, 222
Marlboro, 247
Marx, Karl, 31
Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
Mary Kay cosmetics, 243
Maslow, Abraham, 256
Maslow’s Hierarchy of
Needs Theory, 255 mass customization, 206, 308
Massive, 226 massively parallel computing, 292 mass production, 308 master budget, 142–143 materials handling, 243 matrix organizations, 266 maturity date, 177
McCarthy, Melissa, 222
McDonald’s balance sheets,
132
McDonald’s common stock,
187
52-week range, 188 bid and ask, 187 change, 187 day’s range, 187
Div & Yield, 188 earnings per share (EPS),
188 market cap, 188 price of, 187 price-to-earnings, 188 volume, 188
McDonald’s franchise, 46
McGregor, Douglas, 256 m-commerce, 242 measured media, 228 media options for advertising, 228, 229 meetings, face-to-face, 80 memos, 81 merchant wholesalers, 239 mergers, corporate, 102–103
Merrill Lynch, 62, 63 messages and responses, 84
Meyer, Stephenie, 115
Mickey Mouse creator, 115.
See also Walt Disney company microeconomics, 19 microloans, for start-up funding, 118 microsoft, 47 microwave ovens, 124 middle management, 253–254 middle-level managers, 255 millennial generation, 4 millennial pledge, 4 millennials, 262
Miller Lite, 197
Milsom, Keith, 120 minorities and franchising,
107 minority business development agency, 107
missile systems, 278 mission, 261 missionary selling, 232 mission statements examples, 261 missionary selling, 232 mixed economies, 31–32
M1 money supply, 24
M2 money supply, 24 modes of transportation,
244 monetary policy, 23–26 money, 25 multiplying, by local banks, 26 money market mutual funds,
164 money supply, 24 monopolistic competition, 28 monopoly, 28–29
Moonfruit, 224
Moscovitz, Dustin, 114 motivation, 255 motivation today, 258–259 theories of, 255 theory X and theory Y,
255–258
Mulcahy, Anne, 263 multibillion-dollar enterprises corporations, 94
Apple (technology), 94
Berkshire Hathaway
(investing), 94
Gilead (pharmaceuticals),
94
JP Morgan Chase
(banking), 94
Wells Fargo (banking), 94 multichannel retailing, 240 multilevel marketing
(MLM), 243 multi-pronged threat, 16 muscle milk, 228 mutual funds and ETFs,
179–180 diversification at relatively low cost, 180 liquidity, 180 professional management,
180 variety, 180
Musk, Elon, 149, 175
N
NAFTA (North American
Free Trade
Agreement), 53 name, brand, 214–215
NASDAQ, 182
NASDAQ composite, 187
NASD (National Association of Securities
Dealers), 182
National Association of
Securities Dealers
(NASD), 182 national brands, 215 national brands vs store brands, 215 nationality bias, 82 national minority franchising initiative (NMFI), 107 national urban league, 107 native advertising, 224 natural disasters, 16 natural monopoly, 28 natural resources, 7–8 necessity entrepreneurs,
114
Neeleman, David, 119 negative leniency, 279
Nestlé, 13, 47 net asset value per share
(NAVPS), 179 net income, 136 net present value (NPV), 167 networks, 288 network television, 220
Neutrogena Corporation,
197 new product adoption and diffusion, 218 new product development process, 217 analysis, 217 commercialization, 218 development, 217 idea generation, 217 idea screening, 217 testing, 217
New York Stock
Exchange(NYSE),
182
New York Times, 231
New York-based BlackRock,
173
Newsweek, 89
Nguyen HuuTruc, 41
Niblock, Robert, 143
Nike, 45
Nikkei 225, 187
9/11 terrorist attacks, 16, 19 noise, 77 nominal GDP, 33 nondepository financial institutions, 172 nondurable goods, 308 nonprofit corporations, 102 nonprofit organizations, 7,
192 nonprofit roundtable, 7
Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act,
301 nonstore retailers, 242 direct response retailing,
242–243 direct selling, 243 online retailing, 242 vending, 243 nonverbal communication,
78–80 eye contact, 78 facial expressions, 78–79 gestures and posture, 79 tone of voice, 78
North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA),
15, 53
North Korea, economic reforms of, 79
Northwestern Mutual, 10
Noseworthy, Graeme, 7
NYSE (New York Stock
Exchange), 182
O
Obama, Barack, 9, 21, 51,
62, 79, 131, 192 observability of new products, 217 observation and the honor system, 32 observation research, 204
Occupational Safety and
Health Act of 1970,
283 odd pricing, 250 offshoring, 47 off-the-job training, 278 oil rigs, safety of, 323
Oklahoma-based Chesapeake Energy, 177 older workers, 272 oligopoly, 28
Old Navy, 214 oligopoly, 28
Omidyar, Pierre, 63 on-demand economy, 31
O’Neal, Stanley, 63
100 Best Companies to
Work For, 258
1Password, 302 online retailers, 242 online video advertising,
223
On-Road Integrated Optimization and Navigation
(ORION), 323 on-the-job training, 278 open-end mutual fund, 180
Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
387
Open Market Committee rate, 25 open market operations,
24–25 operating activities, 137 operating budgets, 142 operating expenses, 136–137 operational planning, 260 operations management, 306 cutting cost and waste,
323–324 focus on quality, 319–323 implications of servicebased economy,
316–317 pivotal role, 310–316 responding to changing environment, 306–309 technology of operations,
317–319 opportunity costs, 125
Orben, Robert, 293 order processing, 244
Ore-Ida, 212 organization chart, 263 organizational barriers, 77.
See also communication barriers organizational models,
265–266 organization chart, 263 organizing function of management, 263 key organizing considerations, 263–265 organization models,
265–267 orientation, 278
ORION (On-Road Integrated
Optimization and
Navigation), 322 outlet stores, 241 out-of-pocket costs, 144 outsourcing, 271–272, 315 foreign, 45–46 overhead, of small businesses, 120
Over-the-Counter Market
(OTC), 183 owners’ equity, 132–133 ownership utility, 191, 238
Oze-Moore, 154
Oze-Moore International,
161
P packaging, 216
Pagano, Michael, 186
Page, Larry, 113
388
The Pampered Chef, 243 paragraphs, block, 86 participatory budgeting,
142 partnerships, 93, 96–98 par value (of bond), 177
Paris terrorist attack (2015),
16 partnership, 47, 93 passive voice, 83
Patagonia, 70 patents from U.S. citizens,
46 pay for performance, 280 payments, electronic, 298
PayPal, 298
Pebble smart watch, 118 peer-to-peer lending, 118 penetration pricing, 245
Pennsylvania-based Vanguard Group, 173 people marketing, 192 perceived value vs actual value, 194 perceptual barriers, 77. See also communication barriers performance appraisals,
279 performance goals, 268 performance pay options,
280 personal customer service,
120 personal investing, 183 buying securities, 184–185 choosing a broker,
183–184 investing in securities,
185 personal privacy, 303 personal selling, 231 close sale, 232 follow-up, 232 handle objections, 232 prepare, 232 present, 232 prospect and qualify, 232
Peters, Tom, 242
Petrobras, 177 pets, benefits for, 281
Pew Research Center, 11,
273, 289 pharmaceutical sales representative, 232 pharming, 301 phishing, 301 physical barriers, 77. See also communication barriers
physical distribution, 236,
243 proactive supply chain management,
244–245 transportation decisions,
244 piracy of intellectual property, 304–305 place marketing, 192 place utility, 191, 238 planned economies, 31–32 planned obsolescence, 67 planning, 252 planning function, 259 poka-yokes, 321 political climate, 49–50 political/legal environment,
200 polly pocket dolls, 45
Porter, Donald, 319 positioning statement, 221 positive leniency, 279
PPI (producer price index),
35
Prahalad, C.K., 48, 72 preferred stock, 177 claim on assets, 177 payment of dividends,
177 price levels, 35–36 pricing in practice, 247 consumer pricing perceptions, 249 breakeven analysis, 248 fixed margin pricing, 249 pricing objectives and strategies, 245 boosting volume, 245 building profitability, 245 primary and secondary markets, 180 primary data, 204 primary research tools,
203–204 primary securities market,
180–181 private placement, 181 public offering, 181 principal of a loan, 159
Prius hybrid, 71, 195, 204 privacy, personal, 303–304 private enterprise system, 26 private label, 216 private placements, 181 privatization, 32 proactive supply chain management, 244–245 probationary period, 277 process, 310
processed materials, 211 process layout, 311 process selection, 310–311
Procter & Gamble, 41, 263,
296 producer price index (PPI),
35 product adoption categories,
218 product classification,
210–211 product consistency, 213 product differentiation,
212 clear beer, 212 funky french fries, 212 lumia 900, 212 vegetable jello, 212 product diffusion rates, 218 compatibility, 218 complexity, 218 observability, 218 relative advantage, 218 trialability, 218 product features, 213 production era of marketing,
6, 193 productivity, 36 product layers, 210 production era, 6, 193 productivity, 36 product life cycle, 219 decline, 219–220 growth, 219 maturity, 219 product lines, 214 product mixes, 214 product placement, 224
Coca-Cola, 221
James Bond, 224 modern family (2010),
224 walking dead, 224 product quality, 212 product quality indicators,
213 product strategy, 194 product-use–based segmentation, 197 profitability, building, 239 profitability ratios, 153 profit margin, 249 profits, 5 right to keep, in capitalism, 27 and social responsibility,
65–66 proforma financial statements, 154 project scheduling, 313–314
Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
promotion, 220 in chaos, 220 consistency and focus,
220–221 coordinating the communication, 221 promotional channels, 223 emerging, 223–224 traditional, 227–232 promotional mix, 223 promotional products, 228 promotional strategies, 199 property, plant, and equipment, 132
Prosper.com, 118 protecting intellectual property rights, 304 protecting the environment,
309 protectionism, 50
PR (public relations), 230–231 psychographic segmentation,
196 public accountants, 130 public company accounting oversight board
(PCAOB), 140 publicity, 231 public offerings, 181 public relations, 230 create a petition, 231 launch a hall of fame, 231 make a list, 231
Pullman, David, 184 pull strategy, 233 pull systems, 324 pure capitalism, 27–28 pure competition, 27 pure goods, 210 pure services, 210
Purina, 13 push strategy, 233
Q qualified opinion, 139 quality control, in foreign outsourcing, 45 quality level, 213 quality of life, 6
Qualman, Erik, 223
Quicken loans nurtures,
259 quotas, 50
R race bias, 83 race/ethnicity/nationality bias, 83
radio frequency identification (RFID), 299
Ralph Lauren corporation,
71
Ransomware, 300 rational big ideas, 222 raw materials, 211
Reagan, Ronald, 21 rebates, 228 recession, 34 recovery, economic, 34–35 recruitment, 275–276 external recruitment, 275 internal recruitment, 275
Redbox, 191 refugees, in the European
Union, 55 registration statement, 181 regulation of small businesses, 121
Reiman, Tonya, 79 relationship era, 6–7,
193–194 relative advantage of new products, 218 required reserve ratio, 26 reserve requirement changes, 26 residual claim on assets,
177 retailers, 230, 239–240 retail store categories, 241 retailers, 239–243 retained earnings, 158 retired people, business threats by, 14 return on equity (ROE),
153 return on investment (ROI),
245 return on sales (ROS), 245 revenue, 134–135 revolving credit agreement,
157
Rhoads, Terry, 199 right promotional mix, 233 budget, 233 competitive environment,
233 product characteristics,
233 product life cycle, 233 push vs pull, 233 target audience, 233 right words, 80 active voice, 83 analyze your audience, 81 avoid bias, 81–83 avoid slang, 81 be concise, 81
risk, 151 risk-return relationship,
151 risk-return trade-off, 151 robolove, 3–4 robotic parking valet, 3 robots, 318
Rock, Chris, 254
Romano, Ray, 130
Rowling, J.K., 116
Russell 2000, 187
Russia, business environment of, 8
S salaries, 280 sales budget, 142
Salesforce.com, 134 salespeople, 231–232 sales process, 231–233 sales promotions, 228
Salvation Army bell, 231 samples, 228
Samsung Galaxy S8, 210
Sandberg, Sheryl, 61
Sarbanes-Oxley Act (2002),
64, 68, 140
Sarbox. See Sarbanes-Oxley
Act (2002)
SARS flu (2003), 16 satirical news stories, 79 savings and loan associations,
172
SBA (U.S. Small Business
Administration), 118,
122, 124, 155
Office of Advocacy, 116 resources of, 122
SBDCs (Small Business
Development
Centers), 123
Schwartz, Tony, 265
SCORE (Service Corps of
Retired Executives),
123
S Corporations, 102
Scott Thompson, 63 search engine optimization
(SEO), 223 seasonal unemployment, 34
SEC. See Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) secondary data, 204 secondary securities market,
181 secure socket layer (SSL),
298
Securities Act (1933), 175
Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC),
129–139, 175, 181 securities brokers, 173 securities dealers, 173 securities exchange, 182
Securities Exchange Act
(1934), 175 securities markets, 173–178 security, 244
Segway Human Transporters, 219
Seinfeld, Jerry, 81 selection of job candidate,
276 selective distribution, 241 selfies and security, 302 self-reliance of entrepreneurs, 115–116 selling era, 193 selling expenses, 142 separation, 282–283
Service Corps of Retired
Executives (SCORE),
123 services, 209, 308 inseparability, 209 intangibility, 209 perishability, 209–210 variability, 209 servicescape, 316–317 ambience, 317 functionality, 317 signs/symbols/artifacts,
317 service utility, 239 sexual harassment, 284 shareholder value and social responsibility,
150–151
Shaw, George Bernard, 86
Sherman Antitrust Act
(1890), 28 shopping products, 211
Siemens, 213 short-term bank loans,
157–158 short-term financing, 155 commercial paper, 157 factoring, 156–157 short-term bank loans,
157 trade credit, 156
Shortt, Tom, 313
Simmons, Russell, 14
Simone, Alina, 300 simple supply chains, 308
Simpson, Kevin, 300
Sintumuang, Kevin, 85
Six Sigma, 321
Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
389
Skeel, David, 163 skimming pricing, 247
Skyfall, 225 skyscraper construction,
174
S&Ls (savings and loan associations), 172
Small Business Administration (SBA), 118, 122 small business administration office of advocacy, 116 small business and entrepreneurship, 112 and the economy, 124–125 the entrepreneur, 114–116 funding options for,
117–119 launch options, 121–124 launching a new venture,
112–114 opportunities and threats,
119–121
Small Business Development
Centers (SBDCs), 123 small business opportunities,
119–120 lower overhead costs, 120 market niches, 120 personal customer service,
120 technology, 120 small business threats,
120–121 bigger regulatory burden,
121 high risk of failure, 120 higher health insurance costs, 121 lack of knowledge and experience, 121 too little money, 121 smartphones and selfies,
302
SMiShing, 302
Smith, Adam, 26
Smith, Curt, 323
Smith, Fred, 115
Smith, Mike, 255
Snapchat, 70 social audit, 73 social environment, 12–15 aging population, 14 diversity, 13–14 ethics and social responsibility, 15 rising worker expectations, 14 social environment of business, 12–14
390
socialism, 30–31 social media, 82 social responsibility, 64–71 social responsibility at work,
66 sociocultural differences, international, 47 software, 288 software technologies,
318–319
Sohl, Jeffrey, 119
SolarCity, 176 sole proprietorships, advantages, 95 ease of formation, 95 possible tax advantage,
96 pride of ownership, 96 retention of control, 95–96 retention of profits, 96 sole proprietorships, disadvantages, 93, 96 heavy workload and responsibilities, 96 lack of permanence, 96 limited ability, 96 limited financial resources,
96 unlimited liability, 96
Southwest Airlines, 270, 215,
262, 270
Sony and Toyota, 42 sound financial management, 162
Southern California amusement park, 260
SOX. See Sarbanes-Oxley
Act (2002) spam, 301 span of control, 264
Spielberg, Steven, 224 spin-off, 103 spontaneous financing. See trade credit
Spyware, 299 staff managers, 266 stakeholder approach,
65–71 responsibility to community, 68–69 responsibility to customers, 65–67 responsibility to employees, 65 responsibility to environment, 69–71 responsibility to investors,
67–68 stakeholders, 65
Standard & Poor’s 500, 187
Standard Bank of Africa, 41 starbucks, 308 statement of cash flows,
136–138 statement of retained earnings, 138 static budgets, 143 statutory close corporations,
102
Stefanick, Mark, 300
Stella McCartney, 213
Steur, John, 156
Stewart, Martha, 115 stock (securities) exchanges,
182 stockholders, 99 stockholders’ equity statement, 138 stock index, 183 stock symbol, 187
Stoller, Bill, 230
Stonyfield Farms, 70 store brands, 216 store retailers, 240–241 strategic alliances, 47 strategic goals, 262 strategic planning, 259,
261 creating your strategies,
262–263 defining your mission,
261 evaluating and incorporating, 263 evaluating your competitive position, 261–262 implementing your strategies, 263 setting your goals, 262
Strauss, Levi, 72–73 structural unemployment,
34 structured interviews, 276 subprime mortgage loans,
20–21 sub-Saharan African nations,
41
Subway Sandwiches, 213 success of small businesses,
120, 121 supercenters, 241 supermarkets, 241 supervisory management,
253 supplier, accounting results and, 129 supply chain elements, 243 supply chain management
(SCM), 243 supply curve, 29
survey of small business finances, 156 survey research, 205 sustainability, 15, 204,
324 sustainable development,
69
Swift, Taylor, 67 swot analysis, 261
SWOT analysis, 261, 263 system software, 288
T tactical planning, 260
Tadesse, Fassill, 312
Taiwan-based Foxconn
Technology Group,
157
Target and Publix, 197 target firm, 102 target markets, 195–196 tariffs, 50
TARP (Troubled Assets
Relief Program), 21 tattoos on employees, 283 taxation and debt financing, 159 double, of corporations,
101 of limited liability companies, 97–98,
104–105 of partnerships, 96 of sole proprietorships,
95 taxes and socialism, 32
T-bills. See treasury bills team selling, 232 technical skills, 254 technological environment,
11–12 technology in business, 11–12 and marketing, 205 small businesses, use of,
119 telecommuting, 282 telephone, right to buy decision, 255 telephone conversations, 81 temporarily reversing course, 175 term loans, 159 terrorist attacks, 16, 18 testing, employment, 276
Tesla Motors, 176 texting, 81
Thain, John, 62
Thaler, Richard, 181
Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
Theory X and Theory Y,
256–257
Thomas, Jordan, 66
Thomadakis, Stavros, 140
Thomas the Tank Engine trains, 45 time utility, 191, 238 time value of money, 166
Time, 49
Title VII of Civil Rights Act,
283 top-down budgeting, 142 top management, 253 top-level managers, 255 total quality management
(TQM), 320 customer focus, 320 emphasis on building quality, 320 empowerment of employees, 320 focus on prevention, 320 long-run commitment to continuous improvement, 321
Toyota, 13
Toyota Prius hybrid car, 71
Toyota Prius, 196 trade credit, 156 trade deficit, 43 trade, international, 14 trade promotions, 230 trade surplus, 43 trading blocs, 53 traditional promotional tools,
227 advertising, 227–228 personal selling, 231 public relations, 230–231 sales promotion, 228 training and development,
278 computer-based training,
279 management development, 279 off-the-job training, 278 on-the-job training, 278 orientation, 278
Transparency International,
71 transportation and distribution, 244 transportation modes, 244 transportation, 244 treasury bills, 151
Trendwatching.com, 2–4,
31
Troubled Assets Relief
Program (TARP), 21
troubled waters, 50 trough, 34 truck jobbers, 240
Trump, Donald, 40, 52–53,
79, 118, 171, 192
Tupac’s Shakur (2012), 4
Twain, Mark, 80
20th Century Fox, 255
24 Hour Fitness, 191
Twitter, 134, 223
Typhoon Haiyan (2013), 16
U
Uber, 4, 7, 12, 24, 60–61,
162, 258
Uber syndrome, 12
Ulrich, David, 259
UGG Australia, 191 uncertainty, tolerance of in entrepreneurs, 116 underwriting syndicate,
181 unemployment rate, 33
Unilever, 72
Union Street Guest House,
203 universal ethical standards,
59–60 unsought products, 210
UPS, 322
Uruguay Round, 51
U.S. Army, 192
U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics, 36
U.S. Census Bureau, 13
U.S. Pan Asian American
Chamber of Commerce, 107
U.S. Patent Office, 116
U.S. Postal Service, 238
U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), 118,
122–123, 155
Office of Advocacy, 116 resources of, 122
U.S. Supreme Court,
284U.S. Treasury bills
(T-bills), 163 utility, 190
V value chain, 309, 315–316 value investing, 186 variable costs, 145 variable pay systems, 280 vending machines, 238, 240 vendor-managed inventories,
243
Venmo, 298 venture capital firms, 119 verbal presentations,
87–90 back wall, 90 body, 88 close of, 88 delivery, 90 google presentations, 89 handling hostility, 90 handling nerves, 89 incorporating humor, 90 opening of, 87–88 questions, 88 visual aids, 88–89
Verizon, 13
Veronica Mars, 118
VERs (voluntary export restraints), 50 vertical integration, 309 vertical mergers, 103 vestibule training, 278
Viagra, 124
Victoria’s Secret, 240 video advertising, 223 videoconferencing, 81 video games as marketing tools, 225
Vietnam, economic reforms of, 41 viral marketing, 226,
297–298 viruses, computer, 297 virtual experience economy, 4 vision, of entrepreneurs,
115 visual aids for presentations,
88 voice, tone of, and communication, 78 voice mail, 81
Volkswagen, 70, 156, 231 volume, increasing sale,
244–245 voluntary export restraints
(VERs), 50–51 voting rights of stock, 176
Vroom, Victor, 257
Vuitton, Louis, 324
W
Waffle House, 191 wage gap, 272 wages, 280
Wald, Hans, 292
The Wall Street Journal, 187,
259
The Wall Street Journal’s
Career Journal, 78
Walmart, 13, 41, 71, 99,
115, 120, 194–195,
216, 231, 241, 243,
246, 313
Walt Disney Company,
115
Walton, Sam, 115 warehouse clubs, 241 warehouse managers, 251 warehousing, 243
Warrior Met Coal LLC,
181
Washington Mutual, 20 water, access to, internationally, 50
Watkins, Sherron, 63
Web 2.0, 295
Weinstein, Shel, 120
Wendy’s, franchising lawsuits, 106
Western Union, 255
Wetpaint/Altimeter study,
223 wheel of retailing, 242 whistle-blowers, 64
Whole Foods Market, 213 wholesalers, 239
Whopper Sacrifice, 226
Wikberg, Stefan, 139
Wikipedia, 195
Wilshire 5000, 187
Wilson, Chip, 70
Winfrey, Oprah, 79
Winterkorn, Martin, 70
Winterton, Grant, 49 women workers, 272–273
Wonder Woman, 210
Workday, 259 worker expectations, rising,
14 workers. See employees workforce advantage, 11 work–life balance, 273 worker satisfaction, 11 workforce advantage,
11–12 work-life balance, 273 the World Bank, 52
World Health Organization,
50 world marketplace, 38 barriers to trade, 56 for big ideas, 223 cell phones and, 41–42 competition in, 307 emerging economies, 40 ethics and social responsibility in, 70–72 free trade, 51–55 global trade, 43–44
Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.
391
world marketplace (continued) international trade barriers, 47–51 international trade reasons, 42–43 marketing in, 196, 198,
202 offshoring, international,
315 seizing the opportunity,
44–47 social responsibility in the,
70–72
392
An unprecedented opportunity, 38–42 world’s largest institutional investors, 173–176 deregulation, 175 financial regulation,
174–175 reregulation, 175–176
World Trade Organization
(WTO), 51
World Wide Web, 12, 288,
297 worms, 300
WTO (World Trade
Organization), 52
X
Xerox, 263
Y
Yellen, Janet, 24 younger workers, 272
Yugoslavia, inflation in, 35
Yunis, Muhammad, 41
Z
Zappos.com, 239
Zara, 324
Zara’s flagship store, 324
Zarrella, Dan, 204
Zerella, Bill, 131
Zuckerberg, Mark, 115,
259 entrepreneurship of,
114–115, 119 and the Hacker Way, 259
Zume Pizza, 318
Index
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. WCN 02-200-203
Copyright 2019 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.