Ch1_Review_Questions

Indicate the answer choice that best completes the statement or answers the question.

1. In the context of today's business environment, which of the following statements is true of millennials?
 	a. 	They represent the smallest customer segment of the population.
 	b. 	They refer to those baby boomers who delay their retirement and continue to work even beyond the age of 70.
 	c. 	They represent the smallest employee segment of the population.
 	d. 	They can be trained and developed to fill the leadership gap that is being created by the retirement of baby boomers.


2. Which of the following is a difference between the millennial generation and Generation Z?
 	a. 	Unlike the millennial generation, Generation Z is comprised of people born between 1980 and 1995.
 	b. 	Unlike the millennial generation, Generation Z tends to be extremely tolerant and inclusive.
 	c. 	Unlike the millennial generation, Generation Z approaches adulthood planning to work for success.
 	d. 	Unlike the millennial generation, Generation Z feels entitled to a great job after college graduation.


3. In the context of the history of American business, the _____ emerged in the second half of the 1800s, by building on the foundation of the industrial revolution.
 	a. 	entrepreneurship era
 	b. 	relationship era
 	c. 	marketing era
 	d. 	production era


4. Mercy's Apparels, a fabric company, was established post World War II with the aim of catering to the demands of consumers looking for affordable quality clothing. To differentiate itself from its competitors, the company developed a distinctive identity as the producer of budget clothing. In the context of the history of American business, Mercy's Apparels was most likely established during the _____.
 	a. 	production era
 	b. 	marketing era
 	c. 	industrial revolution era
 	d. 	entrepreneurship era


5. In the context of the history of American business, during the _____, jobs became more specialized, increasing productivity and lowering costs and prices.
 	a. 	entrepreneurship era
 	b. 	production era
 	c. 	marketing era
 	d. 	relationship era


6. Nonprofit organizations:
 	a. 	are usually in the business of financial gain.
 	b. 	do not contribute to a region's economic stability and growth.
 	c. 	account for more paid workers than the entire construction industry.
 	d. 	are not business-like establishments.


7. In the context of factors of production, which of the following is an entrepreneurial "must"?
 	a. 	Abundant availability of natural resources
 	b. 	Excess and strict government regulation
 	c. 	An increase in global trading
 	d. 	Protection from corruption


8. Tornio, a steel company, imports iron ore from Marquette iron range in Michigan. In this scenario, the iron ore obtained by Tornio can be classified as _____.
 	a. 	natural resources
 	b. 	man-made resources
 	c. 	human resources
 	d. 	capital resources


9. A coal mining company has employed around 250 miners who work 8-hour shifts every day. In the context of factors of production, the miners can be classified as _____.
 	a. 	capital
 	b. 	natural resources
 	c. 	entrepreneurs
 	d. 	human resources


10. Twilight Glitters sells ornate diamond jewelry. The company obtains diamond ore from the Yakutia region of Russia. In this scenario, the ore obtained by Twilight Glitters can be classified as _____.
 	a. 	human resources
 	b. 	capital resources
 	c. 	natural resources
 	d. 	man-made resources


11. Verti, a North American country, engages in business with Jerg, a South American country. Verti imports agricultural products from Jerg, whereas Jerg outsources its technological operations to workers in Verti. The two nations are able to carry out these business transactions with minimal tax implications. The given scenario most likely exemplifies the concept of _____.
 	a. 	free trade
 	b. 	e-commerce
 	c. 	deployment
 	d. 	internal audit


12. Ryron Bank, a private bank, introduced Internet banking facilities for its customers after the government demonetized hundred dollar bills. Customers who were reluctant to use credit cards for their daily purchases were enthusiastic about this new option. In this context, which dimension of the business environment is affected the most?
 	a. 	The social environment
 	b. 	The technological environment
 	c. 	The political environment
 	d. 	The global environment


13. President Barack Obama spearheaded passage of a massive economic stimulus package, which was designed not only to create jobs but also to build infrastructure, with a focus on _____.
 	a. 	reduced taxation
 	b. 	eliminating corruption
 	c. 	excessive regulation
 	d. 	renewable energy


14. Spearhead Flight Academy uses flight simulation games to train its students in the basics of aviation. It uses these games to make its students more effective and efficient. In addition, it also offers six months of flight training. In this context, which of the following dimensions of the business environment is affected the most?
 	a. 	The global environment
 	b. 	The economic environment
 	c. 	The social environment
 	d. 	The technological environment


15. As life spans increase and birth rates decrease, the American population is rapidly aging. This may most likely lead to:
 	a. 	an increase in taxes as state and federal governments stretch to serve the aging population.
 	b. 	a decline of companies in fields such as healthcare, pharmaceuticals, and financial management. 
 	c. 	a decrease in competition among companies to recruit top talent.
 	d. 	an increase in the size of the consumer market.


Answer Key

1. d

2. c

3. a

4. b

5. b

6. c

7. d

8. a

9. d

10. c

11. a

12. b

13. d

14. d

15. a


Ch2_Review_Questions

Indicate the answer choice that best completes the statement or answers the question.

1. The controversial $700 billion economic bailout plan passed by Congress in early October 2008 was called the _____.
 	a. 	American Recovery and Reinvestment Act
 	b. 	Troubled Assets Relief Program
 	c. 	Clayton Antitrust Act
 	d. 	NCUA Corporate Stabilization Program


2. In 1982, the total expenditure of the government of Kargenia, a European country, exceeded its revenue by a substantial amount. This forced the government of Kargenia to borrow funds to meet its legal obligations. In this scenario, the government of Kargenia incurred a _____ in 1982.
 	a. 	fiscal drag
 	b. 	budget deficit
 	c. 	debt brake
 	d. 	revenue backlog


3. In the context of monetary policy, which of the following statements is true of the discount rate?
 	a. 	The Fed increases it during recessions.
 	b. 	When the Fed reduces it, interest rates on bank loans tend to fall.
 	c. 	When the Fed increases it, banks can obtain funds at a lower cost.
 	d. 	It is the interest rate that the Fed charges on its loans to individuals.


4. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve holds a meeting to discuss its concern over the decreasing gross domestic product of the country. All members agree that the situation can be brought under control and the economy can be stimulated if they use the discount rate as a tool. In this scenario, the Fed is most likely to:
 	a. 	reduce the discount rate.
 	b. 	maintain the existing discount rate.
 	c. 	increase the discount rate.
 	d. 	use a negative discount rate.


5. The Fed:
 	a. 	decreases the money supply when the economy contracts.
 	b. 	performs banking services for commercial banks in districts where it operates.
 	c. 	calculates the expected expenditure for the federal government every year.
 	d. 	outlines expected revenue that is due from the collection of taxes and fees.


6. Brontsky & Co., a member bank of the Fed, receives a notice from the Fed that notifies that it must hold funds equal to 15% of the deposits held by its customers. In this scenario, the 15% is the _____.
 	a. 	capital adequacy ratio
 	b. 	capital requirement
 	c. 	reserve requirement
 	d. 	debt ceiling


7. Which of the following is an example of a natural monopoly?
 	a. 	Public utilities
 	b. 	Agriculture
 	c. 	Network television
 	d. 	The automobile industry


8. Which of the following statements is true of a capitalist economy?
 	a. 	Individuals are free to choose how much they are willing to pay for products.
 	b. 	Economic equality in the society is of paramount importance.
 	c. 	The competition in the market is biased in favor of a few businesses.
 	d. 	Businesses are not free to decide how much they charge for their products.


9. In the context of fundamental principles of a free market system, which of the following statements is true of a supply curve?
 	a. 	It shows the relationship between price and quantity from a supplier standpoint.
 	b. 	For most goods and services, it forms a sinusoidal curve.
 	c. 	It shows the relationship between supply and quantity from a buyer standpoint.
 	d. 	For most goods and services, it slopes downward as it moves to the right.


10.  _____ is a market structure with only a handful of competitors selling products that can be similar or different and has high barriers to entry.
 	a. 	Monopolistic competition
 	b. 	Monopoly
 	c. 	Oligopoly
 	d. 	Pure competition


11. The government of Bakhraan, an Asian country, owns key industries that directly affect public welfare, such as healthcare and telecommunications. To fund public welfare schemes, such as free childcare and free education, the government levies high taxes on its citizens. In the given scenario, the economic system followed by Bakhraan is _____.
 	a. 	capitalism
 	b. 	socialism
 	c. 	communism
 	d. 	distributism


12. The government of the South Asian nation of Albana is unable to maintain the electronics business effectively because of slack in management and lack of skilled employees. It sells the business to a company called Ramington Electricals. The company has no association with the government, and it operates on its own terms. The sale of the government-owned electronics business to Ramington Electricals is an example of _____.
 	a. 	privatization
 	b. 	globalization
 	c. 	a joint venture
 	d. 	a coalition


13. Which of the following statements is true of productivity?
 	a. 	Increase in productivity usually gives rise to increase in quality.
 	b. 	A high level of productivity typically correlates with healthy gross domestic product growth.
 	c. 	It refers to the quantity of products that consumers are willing to buy at different market prices.
 	d. 	A low level of productivity tends to correlate with economic expansion.


14. In the context of the business cycle, which of the following statements is true of the period of economic contraction?
 	a. 	Consumers shift their buying patterns to more basic products.
 	b. 	The dropping prices increase the sales of luxury goods and services.
 	c. 	Businesses start producing more goods to support the economy.
 	d. 	The economic feel-good factor brings in a lot of investment.


15. Keltica, a country in Asia, enjoyed a period of great economic boom in the 1980s. The country had robust economic growth, high employment, and abundant business investments during this period. In the context of the business cycle, the economy of Keltica was in _____ during the 1980s.
 	a. 	a depression
 	b. 	the contraction phase
 	c. 	a recession
 	d. 	the expansion phase


Answer Key

1. b

2. b

3. b

4. a

5. b

6. c

7. a

8. a

9. a

10. c

11. b

12. a

13. b

14. a

15. d


Ch3_Review_Questions

Indicate the answer choice that best completes the statement or answers the question.

1. Vertiaplume, a drug manufacturing company, exports its products to more than 15 countries around the world. Regardless of reduced sales in one of these countries, Vertiaplume is able to maintain its overall profits. In the given scenario, which of the following is a reason behind Vertiaplume's ability to maintain its overall profits?
 	a. 	Access to factors of production
 	b. 	Ease of storage of goods
 	c. 	Inflow of innovation
 	d. 	Reduced risk


2. Unless they face major trade barriers, the industries in any country tend to produce products for which they have a _____, which means that they tend to turn out those goods that have the lowest opportunity cost compared to other countries.
 	a. 	comparative advantage
 	b. 	balance of payments surplus
 	c. 	positive balance
 	d. 	trade surplus


3. Luchen Modo, a software development firm in Asia, launched a new software for smartphones that allowed users to remotely control certain functions and features of their vehicles, such as ignition, windshields, and headlights. The success of this technology prompted other companies across the world to produce similar software. In this scenario, which of the following is most likely to have influenced other companies to produce similar software?
 	a. 	Establishment of new industries
 	b. 	Inflow of innovation
 	c. 	Access to factors of production
 	d. 	Reduced risk


4. In the context of global trade, which of the following statements is true of balance of payments?
 	a. 	It includes foreign borrowing and lending.
 	b. 	Its surplus indicates more money flowing out than in.
 	c. 	It excludes overseas investments.
 	d. 	Its deficit indicates more money flowing in than out.


5. Wichasha, an African country, exports barley and cotton worth $100 million to Illema, a European country, and it imports sugarcane worth $25 million from Illema. As such, the total value of Wichasha's exports is higher than the total value of its imports. This difference between the value of Wichasha's exports and imports is known as _____.
 	a. 	a comparative advantage
 	b. 	the balance of payments
 	c. 	an absolute advantage
 	d. 	the balance of trade


6. Consider an exchange rate situation in which 1 Indian rupee equals 0.40 Japanese yen. Given this information, which of the following statements is true?
 	a. 	The cost of operating an Indian firm in Japan is lower.
 	b. 	An Indian tourist in Japan can buy more goods and services in Japan.
 	c. 	A Japanese tourist can buy more goods and services in India.
 	d. 	The cost of operating a Japanese firm in India is lower.


7. CuberTech, an American electronics company, set up its production facilities in Chuaga, an Asian country, because the workers in Chuaga work for about one-third the pay of American workers. This substantially lowered CuberTech's cost of production. This scenario is an example of _____.
 	a. 	direct investment
 	b. 	a joint venture
 	c. 	foreign outsourcing
 	d. 	foreign franchising


8. A _____ is formed when two or more companies share resources, risks, and profits without actually merging, to pursue specific opportunities.
 	a. 	joint venture
 	b. 	limited liability partnership
 	c. 	sole proprietorship
 	d. 	limited liability company


9. In the context of the strategies for reaching global markets, which of the following is a key risk of foreign outsourcing?
 	a. 	Increase in the costs of production
 	b. 	Exclusion of the brand name of the outsourcer
 	c. 	Involvement of social responsibility
 	d. 	Inability to lower labor wages


10. In the context of foreign direct investment, a _____ is a voluntary agreement under which two or more people act as co-owners of a business for profit.
 	a. 	franchisee
 	b. 	partnership
 	c. 	sole proprietorship
 	d. 	golden parachute


11. Uniesia, an Asian company, wants to set up a production facility in Maurinia, an African country, because of the low labor costs in the country. However, Uniesia is unable to do so because of the situation of constant civil unrest in Maurinia. In the given scenario, Uniesia is most likely facing the barrier of _____.
 	a. 	economic differences
 	b. 	political differences
 	c. 	sociocultural differences
 	d. 	ethical differences


12. In the context of international trade, which of the following companies is facing the barrier of legal differences?
 	a. 	An Asian company that can only import a limited amount of crude oil from an Arab country because of international trade restrictions
 	b. 	A European company that sells products that cater to specific demographics of foreign countries
 	c. 	A North American company that takes contracts from overseas manufacturers to produce custom products at a low price
 	d. 	An African company that introduces a new clothing line in an Asian country that reflects the latter's cultural and traditional values


13. In the context of barriers to international trade, _____ include differences among countries in language, attitudes, and values.
 	a. 	economic differences
 	b. 	sociocultural differences
 	c. 	political differences
 	d. 	legal differences


14. _____ refers to national policies designed to restrict international trade, usually with the goal of protecting domestic businesses.
 	a. 	Protectionism
 	b. 	Developmentalism
 	c. 	Mercantilism
 	d. 	Neorealism


15. To achieve its basic mission of promoting international economic cooperation and stable growth, the International Monetary Fund (IMF):
 	a. 	increases jobs from foreign companies.
 	b. 	lends money to member nations.
 	c. 	monitors provisions of the GATT agreements.
 	d. 	protects domestic jobs in key industries.


Answer Key

1. d

2. a

3. b

4. a

5. d

6. c

7. a

8. a

9. c

10. b

11. b

12. a

13. b

14. a

15. b


Ch4_Review_Questions

Indicate the answer choice that best completes the statement or answers the question.

1. Vandium, a high-end smartphone, is known for its excellent audio quality and processing speed. However, most of its users complain of certain technical issues after a period of five months. The company, however, is well aware of these issues because it deliberately designs these products to fail after a certain period—a strategy to generate revenue through service charges. In the context of business behavior, Vandium's business conduct is:
 	a. 	legal but ethical.
 	b. 	legal but unethical.
 	c. 	illegal but unethical.
 	d. 	illegal but ethical.


2. Which of the following statements is true of ethics?
 	a. 	All ethical standards are codified in the law.
 	b. 	Ethics and social responsibility are independent of each other.
 	c. 	Establishing broad agreement on ethical standards is easier when society is diverse.
 	d. 	Actions that are completely legal can still be unethical.


3. In the context of the legal and ethical dimensions of business conduct, it is illegal and unethical to:
 	a. 	provide rock-bottom prices only to distributors in underserved areas.
 	b. 	engage in sexual harassment.
 	c. 	pay nonliving wages to workers in developing countries.
 	d. 	endorse low-nutrient foods with inadequate information about the risks.


4. In the context of business ethics, _____ refers to a decision that involves a conflict of values.
 	a. 	an ethical lapse
 	b. 	ethical hacking
 	c. 	an ethical dilemma
 	d. 	ethical consumerism


5. Robert Lane, former CEO of Deere, a highly performing, highly ethical corporation, believes in the importance of senior management commitment to ethics, but he points out that the "tone at the
top" must be reinforced by the actual behavior observed by suppliers, dealers, customers, and employees. At Deere, this is summed up in highly visible, frequently referenced shorthand known as:
 	a. 	the when.
 	b. 	the who.
 	c. 	the where.
 	d. 	the how.


6. In the context of research from the Ethics Resource Center (ERC), which of the following statements is true of companies facing economic difficulties?
 	a. 	Organizational culture during economic difficulties has very little impact on individual employees' decisions.
 	b. 	The decisions and behaviors of company leaders are perceived by employees as a heightened commitment to ethics.
 	c. 	More-engaged employees of companies facing economic difficulties are less likely to report employees who behave unethically.
 	d. 	When employees perceive more management commitment, they become less engaged with the tasks assigned to them.


7. In the context of ethical choices, research results from the Ethics Resource Center (ERC) illustrate that:
 	a. 	organizational culture has very little impact on individual employees' decisions.
 	b. 	misconduct by employees rose when they felt that the Great Recession negatively impacted the ethical culture of their company.
 	c. 	more engaged and dedicated employees of a company are much less likely to report individuals who behave badly.
 	d. 	when employees perceived more management commitment, they became less engaged with the tasks assigned to them.


8. Finoret, a petroleum company, was infamous for its wasteful production methods and continuous violation of the emission standards set by the Environmental Protection Agency. However, when the new CEO took over, the company completely changed its environmental philosophy and adopted an eco-friendly technology to minimize the emission of harmful gases. In the given scenario, the company took a step toward decreasing its _____.
 	a. 	liquid-to-gas ratio
 	b. 	ecological debt
 	c. 	carbon footprint
 	d. 	green procurement


9. In the context of a company's responsibility to the environment, which of the following is the idea behind sustainable development?
 	a. 	To raise money by increasing sales of a company's products so that a significant amount can be donated to nonprofit organizations
 	b. 	To be able to wisely choose between two bad options by judging the losses associated with each
 	c. 	To report unethical and illegal societal activities of employees to the relevant authorities or the media
 	d. 	To meet the needs of the current generation without harming the ability of future generations to meet their needs


10. Companies that step in with on-site day care programs for employees facing challenges such as caring for elderly parents are fulfilling their:
 	a. 	stakeholder criterion.
 	b. 	social responsibility.
 	c. 	legal obligation.
 	d. 	fiduciary duty.


11. In the context of social responsibility, a corporation that does not have profits as a first priority is referred to as a B-Corp, which stands for _____.
 	a. 	basic corporation
 	b. 	benefit corporation
 	c. 	bench corporation
 	d. 	blanket corporation


12. The trade union members of a wool manufacturing company are the company's _____.
 	a. 	middlemen
 	b. 	shop stewards
 	c. 	philanthropists
 	d. 	stakeholders


13. Crumbie, a cereal company, not only provides nutritional information on the packaging box of its product but also goes a step ahead by providing a pamphlet that gives a detailed description of the production process. Given this information, it can be deduced that Crumbie is an advocate of _____.
 	a. 	consumerism
 	b. 	protectionism
 	c. 	developmentalism
 	d. 	integralism


14. In the context of ethics and social responsibility in the global arena, which of the following statements is true of a business's responsibility to workers abroad?
 	a. 	Companies must base their employee performance and appraisal decisions on the average wage standards in the United States.
 	b. 	American businesses should mandate banning child labor in countries where families depend on their children's wages to survive.
 	c. 	Companies must pay wages according to the quality of work done, irrespective of working hours or working conditions.
 	d. 	When deciding living wages, companies must bring together their own values with the laws of both the United States and their host countries.


15. Andrew, an employee in a corporate company, is asked to conduct a systematic evaluation of how well the company is meeting its ethics and corporate responsibility goals. In the given scenario, Andrew is most likely asked to do a _____.
 	a. 	social audit
 	b. 	continuous audit
 	c. 	statutory audit
 	d. 	horizontal audit


Answer Key

1. b

2. d

3. b

4. c

5. d

6. b

7. b

8. c

9. d

10. b

11. b

12. d

13. a

14. d

15. a

Ch5_Review_Questions

Indicate the answer choice that best completes the statement or answers the question.

1. Michael has excellent oratory skills. He is well-spoken and very innovative. However, people are often distracted by his odd mannerisms while speaking, such as his constant foot movement, his slouched posture, and his habit of biting nails. In the given scenario, people get distracted because of _____ to communication.
 	a. 	perceptual barriers
 	b. 	organizational barriers
 	c. 	body language barriers
 	d. 	physical barriers


2. In the context of communication barriers, _____ can range from a document that looks like a wall of type to a room that's freezing cold.
 	a. 	physical barriers
 	b. 	language barriers
 	c. 	perceptual barriers
 	d. 	organizational barriers


3. Fiona, an industrial psychologist, is asked to give a presentation on the benefits of healthy colleague relationships to the employees of a textile company. In her presentation, Fiona uses various technical terms, all related to the subject of psychology, because of which the employees find it difficult to understand her and quickly lose interest in the presentation. In the given scenario, the employees of the textile company face a(n) _____ to communication.
 	a. 	perceptual barrier
 	b. 	language barrier
 	c. 	organizational barrier
 	d. 	physical barrier


4. In the context of American culture, which of the following is one of the dos for better listening?
 	a. 	If you receive text messages or emails, just give them a quick glance.
 	b. 	Use your extra mental capacity to summarize what the speaker is saying.
 	c. 	Ignore the body language of the speaker and focus on the verbal content.
 	d. 	Frown to convey your doubts regarding the point the speaker is making.


5. In the context of the various roles employees take up in an organization, who among the following is most likely to spend a lot of their time listening?
 	a. 	Clerks
 	b. 	Executives
 	c. 	Hourly employees
 	d. 	Junior managers


6. _____ has high channel richness, and especially with state-of-the-art equipment, it conveys much of the richness of actually being there.
 	a. 	Emailing
 	b. 	Videoconferencing
 	c. 	Blogging
 	d. 	Texting


7. Olivia, the CEO of a company, generally uses words such as "she" and "her" to refer to managers and other employees. She also uses feminine examples in her presentations to the entire company. As a result, the male employees of the company feel excluded. Given this information, it can be concluded that Olivia shows _____.
 	a. 	ethnicity bias
 	b. 	nationality bias
 	c. 	age bias
 	d. 	gender bias


8. Jeffery is asked by his supervisor to prepare a presentation on company policies for the orientation program. Jeffrey covers all essential topics and removes any unnecessary information to avoid confusion. In the given scenario, Jeffery is:
 	a. 	avoiding the use of slang.
 	b. 	evaluating his audience.
 	c. 	being concise.
 	d. 	avoiding bias.


9. In the context of business communication, identify a true statement about American culture.
 	a. 	It considers nonverbal cues, such as smiling and nodding, deterrents to effective communication.
 	b. 	It demonstrates negative age bias toward old people.
 	c. 	It considers sustained eye contact with superiors a sign of disrespect.
 	d. 	It associates youth with laziness and dependence.


10. Kenneth prepares a PowerPoint presentation for the board meeting by adding only the essential information and discarding any unnecessary details that could confuse the board members. He ensures to keep his sentences short but not at the expense of completeness. In the given scenario, which of the following communication guidelines is Jeffrey following?
 	a. 	Evaluate your audience
 	b. 	Avoid bias
 	c. 	Avoid the use of slang
 	d. 	Be concise


11. Michael takes his business partner Denver, who hails from a South Asian country, for dinner to a fine-dining restaurant. He assumes that being a Christian, Denver would not have a problem with consuming alcohol. However, Michael is unaware that Denver is a teetotaler. Which of the following biases does Michael show in the given scenario?
 	a. 	Age bias
 	b. 	Gender bias
 	c. 	Disability bias
 	d. 	Ethnicity bias


12. Which of the following statements is true of business emails?
 	a. 	They should be used for sending private messages.
 	b. 	Attachments should be used wherever possible.
 	c. 	Descriptive and detailed emails should be used to provide the reader with ample information.
 	d. 	Response to emails should be as prompt as possible.


13. Before starting a presentation on the employee healthcare initiative of his company, Leonard shares a real-life incident involving one of his friends who had benefited from the healthcare policy provided by her office. In the given scenario, Leonard uses a(n) _____ to open his presentation.
 	a. 	engaging question
 	b. 	metaphor
 	c. 	startling statistic
 	d. 	anecdote


14. If you encounter a hostile questioner while giving a presentation, you should avoid:
 	a. 	reestablishing eye contact once you have answered the question.
 	b. 	pausing for a deep breath before proceeding to answer.
 	c. 	using body language that implies you do not wish to interact with the questioner.
 	d. 	agreeing to disagree with the questioner and instead seek approval.


15. Jake begins his presentation on malnutrition by giving an estimate of the amount of food that is wasted every day in the country. This makes the audience more attentive and responsive throughout Jake's presentation. In the given scenario, Jake uses _____ to open his presentation.
 	a. 	audience involvement
 	b. 	a startling statistic
 	c. 	an engaging question
 	d. 	a simile


Answer Key

1. c

2. a

3. b

4. b

5. b

6. b

7. d

8. c

9. b

10. d

11. d

12. d

13. d

14. a

15. b


Ch6_Review_Questions

Indicate the answer choice that best completes the statement or answers the question.

1. A _____ refers to a partnership in which all partners can take an active role in managing the business and have unlimited liability for any claims against the firm.
 	a. 	limited partnership
 	b. 	general partnership
 	c. 	limited liability partnership
 	d. 	publicly traded partnership


2. In a sole proprietorship, any debts the company incurs are:
 	a. 	taxed only if the owner has not taken a loan.
 	b. 	treated as the owner's personal income.
 	c. 	considered to be the owner's personal liabilities.
 	d. 	used to purchase preferred stocks of the company.


3. Jovi's Corner, a toy store, abruptly closes down after the death of its owner. Without an heir or an experienced person to manage the store, Jovi's Corner is shut down, and the property is sold off to another party. The profits are donated to an orphanage. In the given scenario, Jovi's Corner is most likely an example of a _____.
 	a. 	limited liability company
 	b. 	corporation
 	c. 	limited partnership
 	d. 	sole proprietorship


4. Which of the following statements is true of sole proprietors?
 	a. 	They mostly pay high salaries and substantial perks to their employees.
 	b. 	Their death or retirement does not legally cease the company from existing.
 	c. 	They often must perform tasks in areas where they lack expertise.
 	d. 	Their earnings are taxed only as income of the company.


5. Tania starts a bookstore with her friend. However, owing to other commitments, Tania is unable to help with the daily operations of the bookstore. Therefore, Tania proposes that she would not actively participate in managing the business but would provide financial support to the business. By doing this, she would be sharing the profits equally with her friend, without incurring any of the business debts personally. In this scenario, Tania is a(n) _____.
 	a. 	general partner
 	b. 	limited partner
 	c. 	quasi partner
 	d. 	active partner


6. Which of the following statements is true of the formation of a partnership?
 	a. 	Working out the details of a partnership agreement is always a simple process.
 	b. 	Forming a partnership requires issuance of fresh stock to the public.
 	c. 	Partnerships are created by filing a document called the articles of organization.
 	d. 	Partnerships can be established based on a simple verbal agreement.


7. A(n) _____ cannot distribute dividends to its members.
 	a. 	S corporation
 	b. 	C corporation
 	c. 	not-for-profit corporation
 	d. 	statutory close corporation


8. Harvey, a shareholder in Braxwell Technologies, reinvests 10% of the dividends received from the company back into it, partly to evade taxes and partly to support the company. This scenario reflects the concept of _____.
 	a. 	cash disbursements
 	b. 	tunneling
 	c. 	retained earnings
 	d. 	asset stripping


9. When people use the term "corporation" without specifying which type, they are generally referring to a(n) _____.
 	a. 	statutory close corporation
 	b. 	nonprofit corporation
 	c. 	S corporation
 	d. 	C corporation


10. Inkglot Technologies, a medium-sized corporation, is allowed to have only 35 stockholders at any point of time. However, all stockholders of the company can actively participate in the management of the company while still maintaining limited liability. Given this information, Inkglot Technologies is most likely a(n):
 	a. 	S corporation.
 	b. 	C corporation.
 	c. 	not-for-profit corporation.
 	d. 	statutory close corporation.


11. Green Haven is an organization whose earnings are exempt from federal and state income taxes. Individuals who contribute money to the organization can avail the benefit of tax deduction. However, the organization is barred from distributing dividends to its members. Given this information, Green Haven is most likely a(n):
 	a. 	S corporation.
 	b. 	C corporation.
 	c. 	not-for-profit corporation.
 	d. 	statutory close corporation.


12. The nature of work and the workflow in the animation department of Hanzel Talkies, a movie production company, completely differs from that of other departments in the company. Hence, Hanzel Talkies decides to branch the animation department out into a new company by selling the stock to outside investors. In this scenario, Hanzel Talkies is using a strategy called a(n):
 	a. 	conglomerate merger.
 	b. 	acquisition.
 	c. 	carve-out.
 	d. 	cross-boundary subsidization.


13. Identify a true statement about limited liability companies (LLCs).
 	a. 	The owners of LLCs can elect to have the company treated as a partnership for tax purposes.
 	b. 	Unlike corporations, LLCs are required to hold regular board meetings.
 	c. 	Unlike S corporations, the owners of LLCs cannot include foreign investors and other corporations.
 	d. 	Most states permit banks, insurance companies, and nonprofit organizations to operate as LLCs.


14. Flaira, a high-end clothing brand in Florida, signs a licensing agreement with a firm in Honolulu to allow the latter to use Flaira's brand name, trademark, and business methods to operate the same clothing business in Honolulu. In exchange, the Honolulu firm has to pay the owner of Flaira an annual fee. This scenario is an example of a(n) _____.
 	a. 	conglomerate merger
 	b. 	sole proprietorship
 	c. 	franchise
 	d. 	acquisition


15. A _____ is a type of franchising arrangement in which the franchisor makes a product and licenses the franchisee to sell it.
 	a. 	crave-out trade
 	b. 	non-disclosure agreement
 	c. 	distributorship
 	d. 	divestiture


Answer Key

1. b

2. c

3. d

4. c

5. b

6. d

7. c

8. c

9. d

10. d

11. c

12. c

13. a

14. c

15. c

Ch7_Review_Questions

Indicate the answer choice that best completes the statement or answers the question.

1. Felix lost his job at an investment firm because of downsizing during a period of recession. To keep himself financially stable, he opened a food truck that became a huge success. Which of the following advantages of entrepreneurship initially motivated Felix to start the food truck?
 	a. 	Survival
 	b. 	Independence
 	c. 	Flexibility
 	d. 	Challenge


2. Neman, a single parent, quit his job and started a small independent business because he was unable to give adequate attention to his child. Being an entrepreneur gives him the freedom to give undivided attention to his child without jeopardizing his work. Which of the following advantages of entrepreneurship is highlighted in the given scenario?
 	a. 	Greater financial success
 	b. 	Flexibility
 	c. 	Greater challenge
 	d. 	Survival


3. Samuel has an innovative idea for better disposal of garbage. Hence, he starts a business to implement this idea that he believes will succeed. He is also aware of the risks involved in starting the business. However, Samuel puts in only six hours a day into building his business. Some days, he finds it difficult to put in any time at all. Which of the following entrepreneurial characteristics does Samuel lack?
 	a. 	Energy
 	b. 	Confidence
 	c. 	Tolerance of uncertainty
 	d. 	Self-reliance


4. Which of the following is a characteristic of successful entrepreneurs?
 	a. 	Tolerance of uncertainty
 	b. 	Superciliousness
 	c. 	Apathy
 	d. 	Intolerance of failure


5. In the context of protecting your start-up, _____ means using metrics, creative strategies, and state-of-the-art technology to accelerate the advancement of your brand, service, or product far beyond the norm.
 	a. 	growth hacking
 	b. 	crowdfunding
 	c. 	activity-based costing
 	d. 	backscratching


6. Gemini Inc., a large conglomerate, offered Timothy's new logistics company the much required financial support in exchange for a 40% ownership in the company. It also provided Timothy with an experienced group of people to help him make crucial decisions for the company. In the given scenario, which of the following statements is true of Gemini Inc.?
 	a. 	It is an angel investor.
 	b. 	It is a venture capital firm.
 	c. 	It is a sole proprietor.
 	d. 	It provides commercial loans.


7. Runion Bank is well-known for providing funds to start-ups. The bank lends money to an entrepreneur at an interest rate of 5%, which is to be repaid only after the business earns a sizable profit. If the business fails, then only the primary amount needs to be returned. In the given scenario, which of the following statements is true of Runion Bank?
 	a. 	It is a venture capital firm.
 	b. 	It is an angel investor.
 	c. 	It provides commercial loans.
 	d. 	It helps entrepreneurs in the process of crowdfunding.


8. Ronit has been involved in many start-up projects. However, none of his ventures have been successful because of severe competition in the market and personal issues such as poor health and lack of dedication. Which of the following threats is highlighted in the given scenario?
 	a. 	Too little money
 	b. 	Lack of knowledge
 	c. 	High risk of failure
 	d. 	Bigger regulatory burden


9. Herbert uses prominent social media websites to promote his newly opened restaurant. He constantly posts promotional offers and provides coupons that customers can redeem to avail discounts when they dine in the restaurant. The opportunity of _____ is highlighted in the given scenario.
 	a. 	providing personal customer service
 	b. 	using technology
 	c. 	having lower labor costs
 	d. 	exploiting market niches


10. Mauve starts a business that specializes in procuring and selling antique items. Her business caters specifically to individuals who have high-income jobs and who like collecting unique artifacts. Mauve does not have much competition and can decide the prices of her products without any external influence. The opportunity of _____ is highlighted in the given scenario.
 	a. 	providing personal customer service
 	b. 	exploiting market niches
 	c. 	using technology
 	d. 	having lower overhead costs


11. Michael wants to launch a new product. He creates a website specifically for this on the Internet and uploads a short video demonstration of his product on the website. He also appeals to the viewers to make donations to help him start production. People respond well to his idea and help him collect enough financial resources to start his business. The opportunity of _____ is highlighted in the given scenario.
 	a. 	exploiting a market niche
 	b. 	providing personal customer service
 	c. 	having lower overhead costs
 	d. 	using technology


12. Which of the following statements is true of a business plan?
 	a. 	It should not consider the competition.
 	b. 	It should be finalized before approaching personal funding sources.
 	c. 	It includes an executive summary, which is at least 10 pages long.
 	d. 	It is absolutely crucial for obtaining outside funding.


13. The Small Business Administration (SBA) supports the _____, which provides free, comprehensive counseling for small businesses from qualified volunteers.
 	a. 	Service Corps of Retired Executives
 	b. 	Center for Strategic and International Studies
 	c. 	American Veterans Center
 	d. 	Humane Society of the United States


14. According to the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM), the most effective way to evaluate entrepreneurship levels is by phase. A country's total early-phase entrepreneurship rate includes the:
 	a. 	percentage of adults who have been running their own business from three months to 3.5 years.
 	b. 	number of middle-aged workers who have turned into necessity entrepreneurs after being laid off from their corporate jobs.
 	c. 	percentage of millennials who have decided to start their own venture after retirement.
 	d. 	number of adults who have proven their entrepreneurship capabilities despite repeated failures.


15. Small firms tend to be effective innovators for a number of reasons. Most importantly, their very reason for being often ties to:
 	a. 	a brand-new idea.
 	b. 	a large span of control.
 	c. 	a search for crowdfunders.
 	d. 	the presence of bureaucracy.


Answer Key

1. a

2. b

3. a

4. a

5. a

6. b

7. c

8. c

9. b

10. b

11. d

12. d

13. a

14. a

15. a

Ch8_Review_Questions

Indicate the answer choice that best completes the statement or answers the question.

1. Which of the following is true of government accountants in the United States?
 	a. 	They provide services such as tax preparation, external auditing, or management consulting to clients on a fee basis.
 	b. 	They help ensure that a nation's banks and other financial institutions comply with the rules and regulations controlling their behavior.
 	c. 	They perform a narrow set of accounting functions solely for federal government agencies.
 	d. 	They do not need to adhere to the generally accepted accounting principles.


2. While performing a financial analysis for his organization, Morris discovers that there has been mismanagement of employee funds over the past three months. He immediately reports this to his supervisors. In this scenario, Morris is most likely a(n) _____.
 	a. 	public prosecutor
 	b. 	government accountant
 	c. 	internal auditor
 	d. 	public accountant


3. To give the company's stockholders, creditors, and other external stakeholders an accurate idea of the company's overall performance, Rowensport Corporation, a multinational company, releases statements that contain details of the company's profits and losses over the past five years. In this scenario, the company is most likely involved in _____.
 	a. 	financial accounting
 	b. 	cost accounting
 	c. 	follow-up auditing
 	d. 	social auditing


4. Grydon Inc. has applied for a business loan in the United Bank. To best assess the loan case, the loan officer at the bank, Cerejo, decides to look at the company's net income. Cerejo will find this information in Grydon's _____.
 	a. 	profit and loss statement
 	b. 	statements of cash flow
 	c. 	stockholders' equity statement
 	d. 	statement of retained earnings


5. Which of the following is true of balance sheets?
 	a. 	The balance sheets of different firms vary in specifics.
 	b. 	They identify the sources and uses of cash for firms in a given accounting period.
 	c. 	All balance sheets are organized to reflect the profitability index of firms.
 	d. 	They do not include the value of the intangible assets of firms.


6. In the accounting equation, assets are equal to:
 	a. 	liabilities plus owners' equity.
 	b. 	liabilities divided by gross profit.
 	c. 	stockholders' equity subtracted from liabilities.
 	d. 	owners' equity multiplied by net income.


7. In the context of balance sheets, patents, trademarks, and copyrights are examples of _____.
 	a. 	fixed assets
 	b. 	current assets
 	c. 	liquid assets
 	d. 	intangible assets


8. Miller is the owner of a restaurant that has several franchises. One of the franchisees owes Miller a sum of $18,000 for the goods that he had bought from Miller on credit. In this scenario, the money owed to Miller is known as _____.
 	a. 	checkoff
 	b. 	the freight expense
 	c. 	accounts receivable
 	d. 	the laid-down cost


9. Fred, a financial accountant at a multinational company, is asked by his supervisor to find out the exact income the company earns from the sale of its products over the next five weeks. To do this, for the next five weeks, Fred matches the revenue earned from the sale of the company's products and matches the expenses incurred by the company to the revenue they help produce. In this scenario, which of the following has Fred used to get the required information?
 	a. 	Accrual-basis accounting
 	b. 	Horizontal analysis
 	c. 	Liquidity index
 	d. 	Static analysis


10. Andrew is performing an audit of the financial statements of a cosmetics company. While analyzing the financial statements, he identifies some minor concerns. However, he believes that on balance the company's statements are accurate and its accounting methods are consistent with the generally accepted accounting principles. In this scenario, the independent auditor's report will most likely offer a(n) _____.
 	a. 	qualified opinion
 	b. 	unqualified opinion
 	c. 	adverse opinion
 	d. 	concurring opinion


11. Aegirine Corp., a publicly traded firm based in New Mexico, manufactures iron. According to U.S. securities laws, the firm must:
 	a. 	declare any discrepancies in its financial statements before they come up in the independent auditor's report.
 	b. 	refrain from involving any third party in the process of auditing to maintain confidentiality.
 	c. 	let an independent CPA (Certified Public Accountant) firm perform an annual external audit of its financial statements.
 	d. 	hire auditors to analyze its financial statements and file them with the Internal Revenue Service.


12. A pharmaceutical company wanted to create a budget that was practical and that would enable its managers to make more accurate comparisons between actual costs and budgeted costs. Thus, the company created a budget that was developed over a range of possible sales levels and was designed to show the appropriate budgeted level of costs for each different level of sales. Given this information, which of the following budgets did the company create?
 	a. 	A rolling budget
 	b. 	A flexible budget
 	c. 	A black budget
 	d. 	A static budget


13. A book publishing company follows a budgeting approach wherein the senior managers of the company prepare the annual budget with little or no input from the supervisory and middle managers. The company uses this approach as the owners of the company believe that the senior managers are more aware of the long-term strategic needs of the company. In this scenario, the book publishing company is using _____.
 	a. 	top-down budgeting
 	b. 	incremental budgeting
 	c. 	bottom-up budgeting
 	d. 	zero-based budgeting


14. As part of its financial budget, Clover & Max, an advertising agency, prepared a document that identified the agency's planned investments in major fixed assets and long-term projects. The given information indicates that the agency prepared the:
 	a. 	statement of cash flows.
 	b. 	static budget.
 	c. 	capital expenditure budget.
 	d. 	sales budget.


15. Grengard Corp., a public relations firm, pays a hefty rent for its office space as it is set up in one of the best commercial areas of London. In the given scenario, the rent paid by the firm for its office space is an example of _____.
 	a. 	incremental costs
 	b. 	indirect costs
 	c. 	out-of-pocket costs
 	d. 	opportunity costs


Answer Key

1. b

2. c

3. a

4. a

5. a

6. a

7. d

8. c

9. a

10. a

11. c

12. b

13. a

14. c

15. c

Ch9_Review_Questions

Indicate the answer choice that best completes the statement or answers the question.

1. Financial managers emphasize the goal of maximizing the market price of stock because:
 	a. 	they have a fiduciary duty.
 	b. 	they have to safeguard owner's investments.
 	c. 	their money is at risk.
 	d. 	they are socially responsible.


2. Garry, a financial manager at AtoZ technologies, wants to know when his firm will need to arrange for short-term financing and when the firm is likely to have surplus cash available to pay off loans or to invest in short-term liquid assets. These concerns suggest that Garry would want to develop a _____.
 	a. 	cash budget
 	b. 	pro forma income statement
 	c. 	sales forecast
 	d. 	projected balance sheet


3. Which of the following statements is true of current ratio?
 	a. 	The larger a firm's current ratio, the harder it is for the firm to pay its short-term debts.
 	b. 	The current ratio is a type of leverage ratio. 
 	c. 	A current ratio that is below 1.0 signifies a company's inability to pay its short-term liabilities with its current assets.
 	d. 	The current ratio is computed by dividing a firm's current liabilities by its current assets.


4. In the context of liquidity ratios, a firm's _____ are the debts that must be repaid in the following year.
 	a. 	fixed assets
 	b. 	current liabilities
 	c. 	long-term liabilities
 	d. 	capital assets


5. _____ forecasts the types and amounts of assets a firm will need to implement its future plans and help financial managers determine the amount of additional financing the firm must arrange in order to acquire those assets.
 	a. 	A query report
 	b. 	The cash budget
 	c. 	A statement of cash flows
 	d. 	The budgeted balance sheet


6. Maurio Pena, a petroleum company, needs to pay $2 million to Zaiten Inc. Maurio Pena sells its old assets to another company and obtains enough money to pay its debt. In this scenario, Maurio Pena's ability to sell its old assets to another company in order to pay its debt to Zaiten is measured by analyzing _____.
 	a. 	leverage ratios
 	b. 	asset management ratios
 	c. 	liquidity ratios
 	d. 	profitability ratios


7. Which of the following statements is true of trade credit?
 	a. 	It is also called a revolving credit agreement.
 	b. 	It is a requirement lenders impose on borrowers as a condition of loans.
 	c. 	It is granted by suppliers after evaluating the creditworthiness of a firm.
 	d. 	It is the part of a firm's net income that the firm reinvests.


8. Which of the following is a similarity between angel investors and venture capitalists?
 	a. 	Both require firms to pledge collateral, such as inventories or accounts receivable.
 	b. 	Both invest in risky opportunities that offer the possibility of high rates of return.
 	c. 	Both typically provide funds without requiring a share of ownership.
 	d. 	Both are key sources of long-term funds, which are backed by commercial paper.


9. Merith Qin, a textile company, relies on self-funding in order to sustain the promotion of its new product in the market. The company sold its newly issued stock and was able to amass a sizable amount of money to invest. Which of the following sources of long-term funds is being used by Merith Qin in the given scenario?
 	a. 	Direct investments from owners
 	b. 	Long-term debt
 	c. 	Corporate bonds
 	d. 	Term loans


10. Vironi Mave, a designer clothing company, wants to hire fashion designers to start a new clothing line for men. To obtain funds for the project, Vironi Mave issues several formal IOUs to sell them to its investors, with a maturation period of ten years. Which of the following sources of long-term funds is being used by Vironi Mave in the given scenario?
 	a. 	Commercial paper
 	b. 	Term loans
 	c. 	Direct investments from owners
 	d. 	Corporate bonds


11. Delventon Bank offers loans to multinational corporations which can be returned over an extended period along with interest. The bank issues such loans in the form of bonds. Which of the following financing options is being offered by Delventon Bank in the given scenario?
 	a. 	Factoring
 	b. 	Trade credit
 	c. 	Long-term debt
 	d. 	Commercial paper


12. The main disadvantage of financial leverage is that:
 	a. 	it increases the taxes of firms that use it.
 	b. 	it requires owners to invest more of their own money.
 	c. 	the cost of debt financing is now high.
 	d. 	it protects firms from predatory lending practices by financial institutions.


13. Pro Corp. and Darths Inc. are two companies that are identical in every aspect except for the fact that Pro only uses equity financing, while Darths relies heavily on debt financing. Over the past year, the firms had identical earnings before interest and taxes. If net income for both firms is high, _____.
 	a. 	Pro would pay lower taxes than Darths
 	b. 	Darths would report a higher return-on-equity than Pro
 	c. 	Darths would report a lower return-on-equity than Pro
 	d. 	Pro would be required to pay no taxes, unlike Darths


14. Which of the following statements best describes a money market mutual fund?
 	a. 	It pools funds from many investors and uses these funds to purchase very safe, highly liquid securities.
 	b. 	It is a short-term marketable IOU issued by the U.S. federal government.
 	c. 	It is the part of a firm's net income it reinvests.
 	d. 	It is a financial agreement between a firm and a bank in which the bank pre-approves credit up to a specified limit.


15. The time value of money reflects the fact that:
 	a. 	spontaneous financing is a particularly important source of financing for small businesses.
 	b. 	it is best to have money today, so it can be put to work sooner to make even more money.
 	c. 	a covenant requires the borrower to agree not to borrow any additional funds until the specified length of the current loan.
 	d. 	long-term investments are more profitable than short-term investments.


Answer Key

1. a

2. a

3. c

4. b

5. d

6. c

7. c

8. b

9. a

10. d

11. c

12. c

13. b

14. a

15. b

Ch10_Review_Questions

Indicate the answer choice that best completes the statement or answers the question.

1. Financial managers emphasize the goal of maximizing the market price of stock because:
 	a. 	they have a fiduciary duty.
 	b. 	they have to safeguard owner's investments.
 	c. 	their money is at risk.
 	d. 	they are socially responsible.


2. Garry, a financial manager at AtoZ technologies, wants to know when his firm will need to arrange for short-term financing and when the firm is likely to have surplus cash available to pay off loans or to invest in short-term liquid assets. These concerns suggest that Garry would want to develop a _____.
 	a. 	cash budget
 	b. 	pro forma income statement
 	c. 	sales forecast
 	d. 	projected balance sheet


3. Which of the following statements is true of current ratio?
 	a. 	The larger a firm's current ratio, the harder it is for the firm to pay its short-term debts.
 	b. 	The current ratio is a type of leverage ratio. 
 	c. 	A current ratio that is below 1.0 signifies a company's inability to pay its short-term liabilities with its current assets.
 	d. 	The current ratio is computed by dividing a firm's current liabilities by its current assets.


4. In the context of liquidity ratios, a firm's _____ are the debts that must be repaid in the following year.
 	a. 	fixed assets
 	b. 	current liabilities
 	c. 	long-term liabilities
 	d. 	capital assets


5. _____ forecasts the types and amounts of assets a firm will need to implement its future plans and help financial managers determine the amount of additional financing the firm must arrange in order to acquire those assets.
 	a. 	A query report
 	b. 	The cash budget
 	c. 	A statement of cash flows
 	d. 	The budgeted balance sheet


6. Maurio Pena, a petroleum company, needs to pay $2 million to Zaiten Inc. Maurio Pena sells its old assets to another company and obtains enough money to pay its debt. In this scenario, Maurio Pena's ability to sell its old assets to another company in order to pay its debt to Zaiten is measured by analyzing _____.
 	a. 	leverage ratios
 	b. 	asset management ratios
 	c. 	liquidity ratios
 	d. 	profitability ratios


7. Which of the following statements is true of trade credit?
 	a. 	It is also called a revolving credit agreement.
 	b. 	It is a requirement lenders impose on borrowers as a condition of loans.
 	c. 	It is granted by suppliers after evaluating the creditworthiness of a firm.
 	d. 	It is the part of a firm's net income that the firm reinvests.


8. Which of the following is a similarity between angel investors and venture capitalists?
 	a. 	Both require firms to pledge collateral, such as inventories or accounts receivable.
 	b. 	Both invest in risky opportunities that offer the possibility of high rates of return.
 	c. 	Both typically provide funds without requiring a share of ownership.
 	d. 	Both are key sources of long-term funds, which are backed by commercial paper.


9. Merith Qin, a textile company, relies on self-funding in order to sustain the promotion of its new product in the market. The company sold its newly issued stock and was able to amass a sizable amount of money to invest. Which of the following sources of long-term funds is being used by Merith Qin in the given scenario?
 	a. 	Direct investments from owners
 	b. 	Long-term debt
 	c. 	Corporate bonds
 	d. 	Term loans


10. Vironi Mave, a designer clothing company, wants to hire fashion designers to start a new clothing line for men. To obtain funds for the project, Vironi Mave issues several formal IOUs to sell them to its investors, with a maturation period of ten years. Which of the following sources of long-term funds is being used by Vironi Mave in the given scenario?
 	a. 	Commercial paper
 	b. 	Term loans
 	c. 	Direct investments from owners
 	d. 	Corporate bonds


11. Delventon Bank offers loans to multinational corporations which can be returned over an extended period along with interest. The bank issues such loans in the form of bonds. Which of the following financing options is being offered by Delventon Bank in the given scenario?
 	a. 	Factoring
 	b. 	Trade credit
 	c. 	Long-term debt
 	d. 	Commercial paper


12. The main disadvantage of financial leverage is that:
 	a. 	it increases the taxes of firms that use it.
 	b. 	it requires owners to invest more of their own money.
 	c. 	the cost of debt financing is now high.
 	d. 	it protects firms from predatory lending practices by financial institutions.


13. Pro Corp. and Darths Inc. are two companies that are identical in every aspect except for the fact that Pro only uses equity financing, while Darths relies heavily on debt financing. Over the past year, the firms had identical earnings before interest and taxes. If net income for both firms is high, _____.
 	a. 	Pro would pay lower taxes than Darths
 	b. 	Darths would report a higher return-on-equity than Pro
 	c. 	Darths would report a lower return-on-equity than Pro
 	d. 	Pro would be required to pay no taxes, unlike Darths


14. Which of the following statements best describes a money market mutual fund?
 	a. 	It pools funds from many investors and uses these funds to purchase very safe, highly liquid securities.
 	b. 	It is a short-term marketable IOU issued by the U.S. federal government.
 	c. 	It is the part of a firm's net income it reinvests.
 	d. 	It is a financial agreement between a firm and a bank in which the bank pre-approves credit up to a specified limit.


15. The time value of money reflects the fact that:
 	a. 	spontaneous financing is a particularly important source of financing for small businesses.
 	b. 	it is best to have money today, so it can be put to work sooner to make even more money.
 	c. 	a covenant requires the borrower to agree not to borrow any additional funds until the specified length of the current loan.
 	d. 	long-term investments are more profitable than short-term investments.


Answer Key

1. a

2. a

3. c

4. b

5. d

6. c

7. c

8. b

9. a

10. d

11. c

12. c

13. b

14. a

15. b

Ch11_Review_Questions

Indicate the answer choice that best completes the statement or answers the question.

1. Katherop, a company that manufactures and supplies baby clothes, conducts a charity program every year to distribute free products to the underprivileged children in rural areas. The company advertises this program to gain attention of its customers. Which of the following marketing strategies does this scenario best illustrate?
 	a. 	People marketing
 	b. 	Place marketing
 	c. 	Event marketing
 	d. 	Relationship marketing


2. Aiden Brent, an international tennis player, owns a multinational chain of sports shops named Brent Deuce. The company is popular and gets the attention of sports enthusiasts because of its brand name and ownership. Which of the following marketing strategies does this scenario best illustrate?
 	a. 	People marketing
 	b. 	Place marketing
 	c. 	Event marketing
 	d. 	Idea marketing


3. As part of its corporate social responsibility activities, Weslimkur, a tire manufacturer, sponsored 1,000 bikes for the city of Clankofton. On every bike, the company's name is engraved along with these words: "Ride to work; help save earth from global warming." Which of the following marketing strategies does this scenario best illustrate?
 	a. 	People marketing
 	b. 	Place marketing
 	c. 	Event marketing
 	d. 	Idea marketing


4. Hartown Medicare, a private hospital, advertises at bus stops for blood donation using the slogan: "Donate blood, save lives, stay healthy! You can donate blood at Hartown's 24/7." Which of the following marketing strategies does this scenario best illustrate?
 	a. 	People marketing
 	b. 	Place marketing
 	c. 	Event marketing
 	d. 	Idea marketing


5. Lupebel is a company that sells cosmetic products. The quality of Lupebel's products are high and its prices are reasonable. However, the company takes little effort to market them to the right customers. Lupebel's marketing strategies are not any different from its competitors'; and the company does not portray its product advantages and low pricing in its advertisements. In the context of customer satisfaction, which of the following traps did Lupebel most likely fall into?
 	a. 	Limited relationship
 	b. 	Full partnership
 	c. 	Underpromising
 	d. 	Foretokening


6. In the context of marketing a product, which of the following statements is true of overpromising?
 	a. 	Customers will be disappointed if the product falls short of very high expectations.
 	b. 	Only a tiny base of customers will be willing to try the product.
 	c. 	Customers will forgive the mistakes made by the marketers.
 	d. 	Buyers will provide positive feedback to the marketers.


7. Which of the following can be achieved by marketers by acquiring customer loyalty?
 	a. 	A decrease in the actual value of products
 	b. 	The ability to function without feedback
 	c. 	Automatic market segmentation
 	d. 	Acquisition of new customers


8. Which of the following characteristics of a well-chosen target market states that the people of the target market must be willing and able to spend more than the cost of producing and marketing a product?
 	a. 	Limited competition
 	b. 	Accessibility
 	c. 	Size
 	d. 	Profitability


9. Peter is starting a new business. He selects his target market by identifying similar characteristics, attributes, and behaviors of customers and then grouping them accordingly. Which of the following strategies has Peter employed?
 	a. 	People marketing
 	b. 	Customer relationship management
 	c. 	Place marketing
 	d. 	Market segmentation


10. _____ refers to dividing the market based on consumer attitudes, interests, values, and lifestyles.
 	a. 	Geographic segmentation
 	b. 	Behavioral segmentation
 	c. 	Psychographic segmentation
 	d. 	Demographic segmentation


11. _____ is the description of how people act when they are buying, using, and discarding goods and services for their own personal consumption.
 	a. 	Cognitive dissonance
 	b. 	Observation research
 	c. 	Survey research
 	d. 	Consumer behavior


12. In the context of marketing research data, if the marketer of a company wants to gather secondary data, he or she should use _____.
 	a. 	mall interviews
 	b. 	a focus group 
 	c. 	his or her own surveys
 	d. 	the company's product sales history


13. Which of the following is the biggest downside of observation research?
 	a. 	It is expensive and ineffective.
 	b. 	It does not yield any information on consumer motivation.
 	c. 	It is influenced by the thoughts and feelings of its research subjects.
 	d. 	It does not show what people actually do.


14. _____ demands that marketers actively contribute to the needs of the broader community.
 	a. 	Social responsibility
 	b. 	Ethical consumerism
 	c. 	Corporate sustainability
 	d. 	Shareholder primacy


15. The Internet has opened the door for _____, which is creating products tailored for individual consumers on a large scale.
 	a. 	corporate philanthropy
 	b. 	ethical consumerism
 	c. 	mass customization
 	d. 	flow production


Answer Key

1. c

2. a

3. d

4. d

5. c

6. a

7. d

8. d

9. d

10. c

11. d

12. d

13. b

14. a

15. c

Ch12_Review_Questions

Indicate the answer choice that best completes the statement or answers the question.

1. In the context of business product categories, marketing of raw materials primarily emphasizes:
 	a. 	price and service.
 	b. 	quantity and brand.
 	c. 	customization.
 	d. 	product differentiation.


2. In the context of business products, _____ consist of small-ticket items that businesses consume on an ongoing basis but do not become part of the final product.
 	a. 	maintenance products
 	b. 	processed materials
 	c. 	unsought products
 	d. 	accessory equipment


3. Emma owns a bakery in Michigan. To save time, she buys ready-made edible cake decorations from a vendor in Wisconsin. This scenario exemplifies the purchase of a _____.
 	a. 	credence good
 	b. 	composite good
 	c. 	business product
 	d. 	consumer product


4. In the context of business product categories, the marketing of business services:
 	a. 	focuses on quality and relationships.
 	b. 	emphasizes productivity.
 	c. 	focuses on providing emergency products.
 	d. 	emphasizes standardization.


5. An advantage of cobranding is that:
 	a. 	multiple products can be marketed at the same price.
 	b. 	both companies enjoy limited liability.
 	c. 	both partners leverage their strengths to enter new markets.
 	d. 	it ensures greater consistency in products.


6. Blue Legion, a well-known jeans manufacturer, is the main sponsor for a rock concert. Although the tickets to the concert are exorbitantly priced, the public feels that since the concert is being sponsored by a company like Blue Legion, it must be worth it. The scenario illustrates that Blue Legion has a good _____.
 	a. 	brand valuation
 	b. 	product consistency
 	c. 	brand equity
 	d. 	product mix


7. A home décor company manufactures a range of bedding products such as bedspreads, pillows, and mattresses. The range of bedding products represents the _____ of the company.
 	a. 	commodity chain
 	b. 	supply chain
 	c. 	product mix
 	d. 	product line


8. In the context of product adoption and diffusion, which of the following questions relates to the product characteristic of compatibility?
 	a. 	How visible is the product to other potential consumers?
 	b. 	How easily can potential consumers sample the new product?
 	c. 	Can potential consumers easily understand what your product is and how it works?
 	d. 	How consistent is your product with the existing way of doing things?


9. In the context of product adoption and diffusion, which of the following questions relates to the product characteristic of observability?
 	a. 	How visible is the product to other potential consumers?
 	b. 	How easily can potential consumers sample the new product?
 	c. 	Can potential consumers easily understand what your product is and how it works?
 	d. 	How consistent is your product with the existing way of doing things?


10. The goal of a knockoff is:
 	a. 	to create ideas that radically change how people live.
 	b. 	to distinguish a product from the competition.
 	c. 	to copy a competitor.
 	d. 	to sell at a higher price than the competition.


11. In the growth stage of the product life cycle, competition:
 	a. 	is virtually nonexistent.
 	b. 	begins as firms enter the market with new variations of existing products.
 	c. 	decreases with many weaker firms already leaving the market.
 	d. 	spurs major price cuts, which dramatically cut into profits.


12. Longevo, a watch manufacturing company, offers watches in a wide range of designs to suit all age groups. To adequately cover its wide and diversified consumer base, the company makes use of all the traditional and new age media platforms for its promotions. The promotional strategy used by Longevo is _____.
 	a. 	viral marketing
 	b. 	product placement
 	c. 	integrated marketing communication
 	d. 	inbound marketing automation


13. Vermontz, an automobile company, pays a film studio to include its new sports car in two scenes of its latest action movie. The company feels this would help them gain maximum visibility, and the fans would also develop a positive association with the brand when they will see their favorite actor using the car in the film. Vermontz's business deal with the film studio exemplifies _____.
 	a. 	product placement
 	b. 	viral marketing
 	c. 	sponsorship
 	d. 	native advertising


14. In the context of major advertising media categories, which of the following is an advantage of radio?
 	a. 	High flexibility
 	b. 	Long life
 	c. 	High impact
 	d. 	Increasing number of listeners


15. A deep association between a marketer and a partner (usually a cultural or sporting event), which involves promotion of the marketer in exchange for either payment or the provision of goods, is known as _____.
 	a. 	sponsorship
 	b. 	cross-selling
 	c. 	lobbying
 	d. 	partnership


Answer Key

1. a

2. a

3. c

4. a

5. c

6. c

7. d

8. d

9. a

10. c

11. b

12. c

13. a

14. a

15. a

Ch13_Review_Questions

Indicate the answer choice that best completes the statement or answers the question.

1. Which of the following statements is true of ownership utility?
 	a. 	It boosts customer satisfaction by providing helpful information.
 	b. 	It satisfies customer needs by providing the right products in the right place.
 	c. 	It adds value by making products available at a convenient time for consumers.
 	d. 	It adds value by making it easier for customers to possess the goods that they purchase.


2. Spade Archer buys surgical knives, scissors, forceps, needle holders, and retractors from a surgical equipment manufacturer and sells them to local hospitals. In this scenario, Spade Archer is a _____.
 	a. 	broker
 	b. 	producer
 	c. 	retailer
 	d. 	wholesaler


3. Lynk Corp. drives perishable goods, such as eggs, bread, and muffins to small grocery stores. In addition to taking legal title of the goods it distributes, Lynk Corp. also checks the stock and suggests reorder quantities to the grocery stores. It is evident that Lynk Corp. is a(n) _____.
 	a. 	agent
 	b. 	broker
 	c. 	drop shipper
 	d. 	truck jobber


4. Teri Bake delivers fresh cakes, breads, pies, and muffins to several small grocery stores in Central Radisova. In addition to delivering baked goods, Teri Bake's employees help the small store owners keep track of what they need to order, and they even remove outdated baked goods from the store shelves. Teri Bake is a _____.
 	a. 	truck jobber
 	b. 	drop shipper
 	c. 	cash and carry wholesaler
 	d. 	full-service merchant wholesaler


5. Donton Inc. dominates its market section by offering a wide range of office supplies that includes printers, furniture, and cleaning supplies to final consumers. It is evident that Donton Inc. is a _____.
 	a. 	category killer
 	b. 	department store
 	c. 	supermarket
 	d. 	supercenter


6. Which of the following statements is true of a specialty store?
 	a. 	It offers a small range of everyday and impulse products at easy-to-access locations.
 	b. 	It offers a wide range of food products, plus limited nonfood items.
 	c. 	It sells a wide selection of merchandise within a narrow category.
 	d. 	It sells a complete selection of food and general merchandise at a steep discount in a single enormous location.


7. _____ means establishing only one retail outlet in a given area.
 	a. 	Intensive distribution
 	b. 	Wholesale distribution
 	c. 	Exclusive distribution
 	d. 	Direct distribution


8. Operos, a high-end sports equipment manufacturer, sells its products to the public at its own retail outlets. Because of the high price and limited availability of its products, the company has established its stores in limited locations only in the city of Belwick. In the context of distribution strategies, Operos has adopted the strategy of _____.
 	a. 	intensive distribution
 	b. 	selective distribution
 	c. 	exclusive distribution
 	d. 	random distribution


9. Allied Bakeries sells processed food and beverages manufactured by Winston Corp. to the public. In this scenario, Allied Bakeries is a _____.
 	a. 	wholesaler
 	b. 	truck jobber
 	c. 	retailer
 	d. 	drop shipper


10. Nexi 10 is a store retailer that offers a wide range of food products, such as meat, vegetables, dairy products, and baked goods at a single location. In addition to food products, it also offers a variety of household products and personal care items. In this scenario, it is evident that Nexi 10 is a _____.
 	a. 	supermarket
 	b. 	discount store
 	c. 	convenience store
 	d. 	supercenter


11. Which of the following modes of transportation provides the lowest flexibility in handling?
 	a. 	Ships
 	b. 	Trucks
 	c. 	Railroads
 	d. 	Pipelines


12. Rancone Technologies, a laptop manufacturer, released a new laptop model priced at $800 to attract customers who could afford to pay the high price. After a few months, it introduced low-priced versions of the same laptop to attract new buyers. By doing so, it maximized profitability by targeting different segments of the market. In this scenario, Rancone Technologies has used the _____ strategy.
 	a. 	penetration pricing
 	b. 	everyday-high pricing 
 	c. 	loss-leader pricing
 	d. 	skimming pricing


13. Which of the following statements is true of loss-leader pricing?
 	a. 	It is applicable to all products sold in a department store.
 	b. 	It is legally accepted worldwide.
 	c. 	It is closely related to high/low pricing.
 	d. 	Its goal is to send consumers a message about the exclusivity of a product.


14. The fixed cost of Brendon Willows, a baseball bat manufacturing company, is $500,000 per year. The cost of wood and labor to manufacture one bat is $5. If the customers pay $25 to buy one bat, how many bats does Brendon Willows need to sell to breakeven?
 	a. 	20,000
 	b. 	25,000
 	c. 	100,000
 	d. 	150,000


15. In the context of consumer pricing perceptions, odd pricing creates a perception of:
 	a. 	exclusivity.
 	b. 	greater value.
 	c. 	healthy competition.
 	d. 	upscale positioning.


Answer Key

1. d

2. d

3. d

4. a

5. a

6. c

7. c

8. b

9. c

10. a

11. d

12. d

13. c

14. b

15. b

Ch14_Review_Questions

Indicate the answer choice that best completes the statement or answers the question.

1. Shelly is a manager in an event management firm. She is admired by all the employees of the firm for her open communication, empathetic behavior, and good leadership skills. In this scenario, Shelly exhibits strong _____.
 	a. 	human skills
 	b. 	intrapersonal skills
 	c. 	life skills
 	d. 	cognitive skills


2. Sharon starts her career as a section leader at Timeline Vintage. Over the years, she moves up the management hierarchy and is promoted to a position in the top-level management. In her new position, she interprets marketplace trends, monitors competition, and plans for the future of the organization. Which of the following management skills does Sharon mostly demonstrate in her new position?
 	a. 	Conceptual skills
 	b. 	Interpersonal skills
 	c. 	Technical skills
 	d. 	Human skills


3. Identify a true statement about equity theory.
 	a. 	A drawback of equity theory is that people are not motivated if their physiological and safety needs are met.
 	b. 	It typically includes five factors, which are task identity, skill variety, task significance, feedback, and autonomy.
 	c. 	A drawback of equity theory is that people are prone to overestimate their own contributions.
 	d. 	It proposes that workers are not motivated if they do not have freedom and authority regarding their jobs.


4. Paul is an employee at a marketing firm. He is someone who prefers to be instructed by his seniors and avoids taking major responsibilities. He rarely uses his own judgment or creativity while doing a task in fear of putting things at risk. Paul's conduct in the workplace is consistent with the assumptions of _____.
 	a. 	equity theory
 	b. 	Theory Y
 	c. 	Theory X
 	d. 	expectancy theory


5. In the context of the factors of job enrichment, _____ means that workers receive clear, frequent information about their performance.
 	a. 	feedback
 	b. 	extrospection
 	c. 	autonomy
 	d. 	empathy


6. Which of the following statements is true of job enrichment?
 	a. 	It is the creation of jobs with more meaningful content, under the assumption that creative work will motivate employees.
 	b. 	It refers to bringing one's personal knowledge and dexterity to perform a particular job task.
 	c. 	It is the level of financial stability that individuals gain from a job.
 	d. 	It refers to increasing the value of a particular job role by increasing the responsibilities associated with it.


7. Barbara, a first-line manager at a manufacturing firm, has negative perceptions about her subordinates. She believes that they dislike work and would do anything to avoid it. As a result, she constantly coerces them into working by threatening them with a decrease in pay. In this scenario, Barbara most likely believes in _____.
 	a. 	equity theory
 	b. 	Maslow's hierarchy of needs theory
 	c. 	Theory X
 	d. 	expectancy theory


8. Which of the following is a difference between strategic planning and tactical planning?
 	a. 	Strategic planning is done by top-level managers, whereas tactical planning is done by middle managers.
 	b. 	Strategic planning deals with day-to-day manufacturing activities, whereas tactical planning deals with determining a vision.
 	c. 	Strategic planning focuses on the short-term objectives of a firm, whereas tactical planning focuses on the long-term objectives of a firm.
 	d. 	Strategic planning deals with determining specific action steps, whereas tactical planning deals with determining broad action steps.


9. In the context of strategic planning, which of the following is true of mission statements?
 	a. 	They contain information about the corporate responsibility activities of a company.
 	b. 	They are similar in length and language across organizations.
 	c. 	They are confidential and are created for circulation only within an organization.
 	d. 	They provide a clear, long-term focus for an organization.


10. Which of the following statements is true of strategic planning?
 	a. 	It is typically done by first-line managers.
 	b. 	Implementation of strategies should happen largely through operational planning.
 	c. 	Evaluation of the results of an organization's strategies should be a continual process.
 	d. 	It is typically done for a fifteen-year time frame.


11. In the context of evaluating an organization's competitive position, SWOT analysis (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats) is a strategic planning tool that helps companies:
 	a. 	articulate their essential reason for being.
 	b. 	define their purpose and values, which provide the framework for all their plans.
 	c. 	assess where they stand relative to the competition.
 	d. 	evaluate the results of their plans and incorporate all the lessons learned.


12. In the context of departmentalization, dividing employees into groups based on the commodities that a company offers is known as _____.
 	a. 	functional departmentalization
 	b. 	process departmentalization
 	c. 	product departmentalization
 	d. 	customer departmentalization


13. In the context of departmentalization, dividing employees into groups based on the type of work they do is known as _____.
 	a. 	process departmentalization
 	b. 	geographical departmentalization
 	c. 	product departmentalization
 	d. 	customer departmentalization


14. In the context of organizational models, which of the following statements is true of matrix organizations?
 	a. 	They are less flexible than line-and-staff organizations.
 	b. 	They create a lower level of motivation and satisfaction for employees than line organizations.
 	c. 	They bring together specialists from different areas of the organization to work on individual projects on a temporary basis.
 	d. 	They reduce conflict and stress among employees as they need to report to only one boss.


15. _____ hoard decision-making power for themselves, and they typically issue orders single-handedly.
 	a. 	Democratic leaders
 	b. 	Free-rein leaders
 	c. 	Autocratic leaders
 	d. 	Laissez-faire leaders


Answer Key

1. a

2. a

3. c

4. c

5. a

6. a

7. c

8. a

9. d

10. c

11. c

12. c

13. a

14. c

15. c


Ch15_Review_Questions

Indicate the answer choice that best completes the statement or answers the question.

1. Human resource (HR) managers can nurture human investment so that it yields the highest possible return by _____.
 	a. 	promoting career development
 	b. 	recruiting employees for low wages
 	c. 	providing the same compensation to all employees
 	d. 	satisfying all demands of trade unions


2. In 2011 and 2012, many economists were concerned about a jobless recovery because:
 	a. 	there was a broken link between pay and performance.
 	b. 	labor markets were faltering.
 	c. 	many employees were leaving jobs to start their own companies.
 	d. 	there was a decrease in the motivation level of employees.


3. Which of the following is a major challenge faced by most human resources departments?
 	a. 	Refraining from documentation to avoid employee lawsuits
 	b. 	Maintaining a high ratio of young workers to old workers
 	c. 	Being considered irrelevant by many employees
 	d. 	Receiving lesser pay than the trainees of other departments


4. In the context of employee selection, many companies use _____ simply as an initial screening mechanism.
 	a. 	interviews
 	b. 	references
 	c. 	written applications
 	d. 	medical tests


5. _____ refer to noncash compensation, including programs such as health insurance, vacation, and childcare.
 	a. 	Gratuities
 	b. 	Bonuses
 	c. 	Commissions
 	d. 	Benefits


6. In the context of a complete human resource (HR) plan, once you have a pool of qualified candidates, your next step should ideally be _____.
 	a. 	separation
 	b. 	compensation
 	c. 	training
 	d. 	selection


7. One of the first steps in the human resource (HR) planning process should be:
 	a. 	to forecast future human resource requirements.
 	b. 	to figure out where the company stands in terms of human resources.
 	c. 	to create a pool of qualified candidates.
 	d. 	to train new employees and orient them with the organization's culture.


8. Only those who have a degree in business or marketing are eligible to apply for the position of content marketer at Amberfite, a public relations firm. In the context of human resource (HR) planning, which of the following concepts does this scenario best illustrate?
 	a. 	Job description
 	b. 	Job specifications
 	c. 	Employee separation
 	d. 	Employee selection


9. In the context of employee selection, many managers use a(n) _____ as a get-to-know-you session rather than focusing on the needs of the position.
 	a. 	performance appraisal
 	b. 	interview
 	c. 	medical test
 	d. 	reference


10. At Nanclet, a market research firm, whenever a particular team needs to hire people, the human resource (HR) department conducts the external recruitment processes for them. The HR department also furnishes the recruiters of the recruiting team with a list of questions they are expected to ask all the job applicants, irrespective of the applicants' work experience. In the context of employee selection, this scenario best illustrates _____.
 	a. 	positive leniency
 	b. 	appraisal interviews
 	c. 	structured interviews
 	d. 	job analysis


11. Whenever there are job vacancies in the marketing department of Sporlishk, a sports goods manufacturer, the eligible field marketing employees of the company are given physical application forms to apply for those jobs. In the context of human resource (HR) planning, this scenario best illustrates _____.
 	a. 	internal recruitment
 	b. 	employee selection
 	c. 	employee separation
 	d. 	management development


12. Randy, the production manager at a computer hardware manufacturing company, is never satisfied with the productivity of his workers even when they meet or exceed production targets. Hence, he gives equally bad ratings to almost all the factory workers. In the context of performance appraisals, which of the following does this scenario best illustrate?
 	a. 	Halo effect
 	b. 	Affirmative action
 	c. 	Negative leniency
 	d. 	Employee separation


13. Jorge is unable to attend office because of poor health conditions. Therefore, Jorge's employer gives him the option to work from home, provided he is connected to the company's internal portal during working hours and he achieves his daily targets before 5:00 p.m. In the context of employee benefits, this scenario exemplifies _____.
 	a. 	a flextime plan
 	b. 	a job-sharing plan
 	c. 	telecommuting
 	d. 	affirmative action


14. Candidates who apply for jobs at Susrett, a cell phone manufacturing company, check discussions on the Internet to find out the regular set of questions that the recruiters ask during the recruitment process. A lot of job applicants who apply for jobs at Susrett, therefore, find it easy to answer the questions because the interviewers ask the same set of questions. In the context of employee selection, this scenario most likely illustrates _____.
 	a. 	positive leniency
 	b. 	structured interviews
 	c. 	appraisal interviews
 	d. 	job analysis


15. The term _____ refers to policies meant to increase employment and educational opportunities for minority groups.
 	a. 	reverse discrimination
 	b. 	affirmative action
 	c. 	inclusive design
 	d. 	employee separation


Answer Key

1. a

2. b

3. c

4. c

5. d

6. d

7. b

8. b

9. b

10. c

11. a

12. c

13. c

14. b

15. b

Ch16_Review_Questions

Indicate the answer choice that best completes the statement or answers the question.

1. Legostine Corp. uses a new high-tech network based on fiber-optic cable. The network utilizes technologies that give it a speed and capacity far exceeding the current network and is available only to Legostine's employees. In this scenario, Legostine Corp. uses _____.
 	a. 	Web 2.0
 	b. 	Internet2
 	c. 	broadband
 	d. 	extranet


2. The management of Vencura Inc. approves the purchase of a few computers for the sales team. The management wants only the most basic functions in the computers, such as managing the file system, reading programs and data into main memory, and allocating system memory among various tasks to avoid conflicts. In this scenario, which of the following categories of software does Vencura Inc. require?
 	a. 	System software
 	b. 	Antivirus software
 	c. 	Applications software
 	d. 	Copylefted software


3. In the context of software, _____ is designed for a specific industry or profession.
 	a. 	lateral system software
 	b. 	vertical applications software
 	c. 	horizontal applications software
 	d. 	office productivity software


4. A benefit that cloud computing provides to individual users is that it:
 	a. 	allows them to access their data from any computer without an Internet connection.
 	b. 	eliminates the threat of unauthorized access.
 	c. 	helps them analyze and process complex data without professional help.
 	d. 	allows them to store large files without taking up valuable space on their computers' hard drive.


5. A _____ is a request for the database management software to search a database for data that match criteria specified by a user.
 	a. 	cybermediary
 	b. 	protocol
 	c. 	query
 	d. 	cache


6. Jeff, the CEO of Francostico Inc., decides to set up a system that would help its managers with decision making. To design this system, his programmers ask skilled and proficient managers to explain how they solve problems. Then, they devise a program to mimic the specialists' approach, incorporating various rules or guidelines that the specialists use. In this scenario, Jeff seeks to develop a(n) _____ for the managers.
 	a. 	business intelligence system
 	b. 	data warehouse
 	c. 	cybermediary
 	d. 	expert system


7. Cognizance, an online news portal, needs to update its website frequently. To achieve this, the IT department of Cognizance develops a system that gives its managers access to large amounts of data and the processing power to convert the data into high-quality information quickly and efficiently. In this scenario, Cognizance has developed _____ to assist its managers.
 	a. 	a decision support system
 	b. 	a computer-aided design
 	c. 	an expert system
 	d. 	Hypertext Markup Language


8. Everything.com, an online cosmetics portal, does not allow its customers to reach the final billing section unless they share its offer links with at least two friends. In this scenario, everything.com uses _____ to communicate its message.
 	a. 	Web 2.0
 	b. 	cybermediary
 	c. 	viral marketing
 	d. 	InterINC


9. Which of the following statements is true of viral marketing?
 	a. 	It attempts to get customers to communicate a firm's message to friends, family, and colleagues.
 	b. 	The strategy of viral marketing is unique to the Internet.
 	c. 	Legitimate viral marketing uses computer viruses to promote products.
 	d. 	It solely uses the employees of a firm to promote the firm's goods and services.


10. Unlike business-to-consumer (B2C) e-commerce, business-to-business (B2B) e-commerce involves:
 	a. 	extensive negotiation over specifications, delivery, installation, support, and other issues.
 	b. 	very large typical individual transactions.
 	c. 	customers who do little research and often base their purchases on impulse.
 	d. 	firms that seldom develop a close working relationship with individual customers.


11. Zahra buys a product from a high-end store, and the sales representative asks her to fill out a customer registration form so that she can avail discount offers and receive notifications about new products in the future. Although providing one's mailing details is optional, Zahra provides her details as she wants to be updated about any new products that the store has to offer. In this context, which of the following statements is true?
 	a. 	Zahra is a victim of phishing.
 	b. 	Zahra has chosen to receive opt-in emails.
 	c. 	Zahra has chosen to receive push emails.
 	d. 	Zahra is exposed to viral marketing.


12. Websites that incorporate interactive and collaborative features to create a richer, more interesting, and more useful experience for their users are known as _____.
 	a. 	Web 2.0 sites
 	b. 	InterNIC sites
 	c. 	Internet2 sites
 	d. 	extranet sites


13. Ronald is an avid reader of detective novels. He visits a few websites to look for the latest novels of his favorite author. The next day he finds multiple ads in his inbox suggesting thriller novels from various authors. In this scenario, the malicious software used to track down Ronald's online behavior is _____.
 	a. 	a worm
 	b. 	spyware
 	c. 	a bastion host
 	d. 	attack tree software


14. ZumbaUp, a leading jeans brand, realized that a user named PoisonX had breached its security codes and gained unwarranted access to the company's highly classified information. The company was shocked to see all of its business tactics and prospective deals put up online, exposed to everyone. In this scenario, ZumbaUp is a victim of _____.
 	a. 	spamming
 	b. 	hacking
 	c. 	phishing
 	d. 	pharming


15. The practice of using text messaging to entice cell phone users to visit a scammer's fake website asking them to provide personal or financial information is referred to as _____.
 	a. 	SMiShing
 	b. 	TEXTarming
 	c. 	PharSmSing
 	d. 	typosquatting


Answer Key

1. b

2. a

3. b

4. d

5. c

6. d

7. a

8. c

9. a

10. a

11. b

12. a

13. b

14. b

15. a


Ch17_Review_Questions


Indicate the answer choice that best completes the statement or answers the question.

1. Harry's Inc., a manufacturer of men's apparel, manufactures large quantities of the company's basic clothing lines to keep the manufacturing costs low. Given this information, it can be inferred that Harry's Inc. pursues:
 	a. 	just-in-time production.
 	b. 	mass production.
 	c. 	mass customization.
 	d. 	lean production.


2. Marie, an operations manager at Clagox Systems, spends a lot of time in figuring out ways to achieve the established goals of the company at minimal costs. She conducts meetings and asks for suggestions from her teammates to reach the targets at the lowest possible expense. In this scenario, Marie is focusing on _____.
 	a. 	effectiveness
 	b. 	efficiency
 	c. 	undifferentiated marketing
 	d. 	immediate predecessors


3. Ursula Corp., a manufacturer of notebooks, makes small batches of different kinds of notebooks according to the customer demand. In this way, it caters to the needs of various customers without significantly increasing the manufacturing cost. In this scenario, which of the following techniques does Ursula employ?
 	a. 	Computer-aided engineering
 	b. 	Mass production
 	c. 	Adjustable manufacturing
 	d. 	Mass customization


4. A _____ falls between the product layout and the process layout.
 	a. 	cellular layout
 	b. 	line layout
 	c. 	fixed position layout
 	d. 	functional layout


5. The term _____ refers to stocks of goods or other items held by an organization.
 	a. 	kanban
 	b. 	floor load
 	c. 	inventory
 	d. 	poke-yoke


6. Enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems are:
 	a. 	complex.
 	b. 	cheap.
 	c. 	easy to implement.
 	d. 	user-friendly.


7. In the context of the location of facilities, the operations manager of a _____ is likely to choose a location based on the proximity to customers.
 	a. 	publishing house
 	b. 	bank
 	c. 	food packaging plant
 	d. 	coal mine


8. Identify a true statement about process layouts.
 	a. 	They can be used to produce a variety of products without the need for expensive retooling.
 	b. 	They reduce processing times but are inflexible.
 	c. 	They can be used for constructing large and bulky goods, such as ships or commercial airplanes.
 	d. 	They require highly specialized machinery that is designed to perform one specific task very efficiently.


9. Unlike the value chain, the supply chain:
 	a. 	focuses primarily on the customer.
 	b. 	involves providing services after the sale.
 	c. 	is primarily oriented toward traditional production relationships.
 	d. 	includes activities and processes involved in acquiring customers.


10. Identify a benefit of holding larger inventories.
 	a. 	Decreased holding costs
 	b. 	Decreased risk of losses due to depreciation
 	c. 	High availability of funds
 	d. 	Smooth production schedules


11. The term servicescape refers to the:
 	a. 	contribution of a customer in obtaining services.
 	b. 	free services that come with a product.
 	c. 	environment in which customer service employees are trained.
 	d. 	environment in which a customer and service provider interact.


12. Harry, an architect working for Buildext Corp., uses a software program to create blueprints of buildings planned by him. This software enables him to create 3-D drawings that make his presentation effective. In this scenario, which of the following software does Harry use to create the blueprints?
 	a. 	Computer-aided engineering software
 	b. 	Computer-aided design software
 	c. 	Computer-aided manufacturing software
 	d. 	Computer-aided processing software


13. In operations management, quality is defined in terms of:
 	a. 	the ratio of cost to output.
 	b. 	how well a product satisfies customer preferences.
 	c. 	additional tangible features that come with a product.
 	d. 	the time taken to inspect one unit of a product.


14. The long-term goal of most green practices is to:
 	a. 	reduce rework.
 	b. 	improve work–life balance.
 	c. 	reduce costs.
 	d. 	achieve sustainability.


15. April owns a bakery that specializes in bulk orders. April does not have enough storage space and therefore maintains a very small inventory of finished goods and raw materials. She depends on her suppliers to supply raw materials quickly whenever she receives an order, and she has created a system that allows her to seamlessly coordinate with all her suppliers in real time. From the given information, it can be inferred that April follows the:
 	a. 	push system of inventory control.
 	b. 	mass production system.
 	c. 	just-in-time production system.
 	d. 	continuous production system.


Answer Key

1. b

2. b

3. d

4. a

5. c

6. a

7. b

8. a

9. c

10. d

11. d

12. b

13. b

14. d

15. c























