Gallaudet University
Department of Business

Introduction to Risk
Management and Insurance
RMI 201 (01)

4 Credit Hours

James H. Bruner
Maguire Welcome Center, 2nd floor office
james.bruner@gallaudet.edu

Instructor:
Office:
Email:
Zoom:
Office Hours:
Class Day/Time:  Tuesday & Thursday, 10am - 11:50am

https://gallaudet.zoom.us/j/635327846
Tues., 4pm - 5pm; Thurs. 9am-10am; Fri. 10am-12pm

Course Description:
This course starts with a broad overview of ways to manage risk, and the approach taken
by insurance companies and businesses to contain these risks. The meaning of risk
management will be discussed in detail. The nature of the insurance contract, the various
types of insurance, and their routine components are examined. The use of insurance as a
solution for business problems is also explored. Topics such as the law of large numbers,
pooling of
insurance
regulation, insurance contracts, social insurance, and loss exposures mainly in the area of
property and liability insurance will be covered. The impact on insurance from COVID-19
will also be discussed.
Prerequisite: N/A

insurer solvency & profitability,

insurance coverages,

losses,

Required Materials:

● Principles of Risk Management and Insurance, 14th Edition., Rejda, McNamara, (Pearson)
● A financial calculator.

Student Learning Outcomes (SLOs):
Please see the end of the syllabus for a complete chart of SLOs, critical learning opportunities,
assessment methods, and alignment with program and university outcomes as well as those required by
the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP).

Online Material:
A Blackboard web page will accompany this class. All announcements and other relevant information
will be posted on Blackboard. All textbook chapter powerpoints will be posted on Blackboard.

Reporting Responsibilities:
While I want you to feel comfortable coming to me with issues you may be struggling with or concerns
you may be having, please be aware that I have some reporting requirements that are part of my job
requirements at Gallaudet University. For example, if you inform me of sexual harrassment, sexual
assult, or discrimination, I will keep the information as private as I can, but I am required to bring it to
If you would like to talk to those offices
the attention of the Title IX Coordinator or EEO/AA office.
directly, they can be reached by contacting Sharrell McCaskill through VP (202-559-5683) or at her office
at
website:
https://www.gallaudet.edu/title-ix-at-gallaudet-university. Additionally, you can also report incidents or
complaints to DPS. You can also get support at CAPS (Counseling and Psychological Services), SHS
(Student Health Services) and the Ombudsman, Business LAw II Syllabus Page 7 of 9 Fall Semester 2020.
Another common example is if you are struggling with an issue that may be traumatic or unusual stress. I
will likely inform the Campus Behavioral Intervention Team (BIT) or CAPS. If you would like to reach out
at
directly
https//www.gallaudet.edu/student-affairs/behavior-intervention-team. Finally, know that I am always
willing to listen and give advice if needed.

assistance,

following

contact

College

them

them

Hall

312

you

can

the

for

or

to

at

Food/Drink in class: NO food or drink will be allowed in class without the professor's permission.

Attendance Policy:
As a matter of University policy you are expected to attend scheduled classes in which you are enrolled.
Good attendance is a factor in the establishment of final grades and will be considered if a final grade is
border line. No more than three unexcused absences are allowed.

Grades:
The final course grade will be based on your performance on the assignment(s), Presentation(s), Case
Study(s), H.W. quizzes, exam(s), final exam, and the attendance and participation using the following
weights:

Evaluation
Attendance & Participation
Assignment
Research Paper/Presentation
Quizzes
Essays
Final Exam

Percentage
10 %
15 %
20 %
20 %
10%
25%

Assignment(s) and Presentation(s):

● Assignment(s) will be posted on Blackboard.
● Be sure to use effective description and analysis of issues in the professional written

Assignments:

o Content within the scope of assignment and should be complete
o Language focused and concise
o Effective transition between text, graphics, and tables
o Clean look, professionally formatted and appropriate non-text pictures and charts
o Free from typos and grammatical errors
o Appropriate citation of research material supporting the Assignment

● Presentation of assignments in class is optional but strongly encouraged.

● You will be able to choose any company as the subject of your managing risk paper. We will

Research Paper/Case Study:

discuss in detail.

Quizzes:

● Questions on the quizzes will be multiple-choice, true/false, essays, and problems.
● The  quizzes are not cumulative.
● The quizzes are  presumed you have thoroughly studied the text, and lecture materials
● The quizzes will be both closed and open book.
● There will be no makeup quizzes

Essays: Each essay will be a minimum of a one page summary from the previous reading assignment.
You will be expected to highlight key points of the reading assignment.

Final Exam:

● Questions on the final exam will be multiple-choice, true/false, essays, and problems. (have your

financial calculator with you).
● The exam will be cumulative.
● The final exam presumes you have thoroughly studied the text, studied lecture materials, and

reviewed all quizzes/essays.

● The final exam is a closed book exam.
● There will be NO MAKE-UP EXAM.
● The final exam will follow the university final exam schedule.

Grading Policy:
The following grading scale will be used in determining your final grade:

Grade
A
A-

Equivalence
93-100
90-92

B+
B
B-
C+
C
C-
D+
D
F

87-89
83-86
80-82
77-79
73-76
70-72
67-69
60-66
Below 60

Gallaudet University Academic Integrity Policy:

It is the student’s responsibility to familiarize themselves and comply with the Gallaudet University
Undergraduate Academic Integrity Policy, which can be found in the Gallaudet University Undergraduate
Catalog
at
https://www.gallaudet.edu/academic-catalog/registration-and-policies/graduate-policies/academic-inte
grity.html

University

Gallaudet

website

the

on

or

OSWD Academic Accommodation Policy:

Students who require accommodations need to register with the Office for Students with Disabilities
(OSWD) located in SAC 1022 in order to have their status certified and recorded. OSWD will contact the
instructors to arrange for accommodation, but only after certification has been determined. No
accommodation can be provided prior to authorization by OSWD.

For more information about OSWD policy, go to
http://www.gallaudet.edu/Documents/OSWD/OSWD.Distance.Learner.Accommodations.pdf

The Ombuds Office:

If issues arise related to this course, please contact me. If you would like the assistance of an impartial
third-party regarding a course-related issue you may contact the Office of the Ombuds. The Ombuds is
available as a confidential and neutral resource to assist with the informal resolution of conflicts and
concerns. The Office is located at Ely Center 113. Videophone: 202.559.5079.
E-mail: ombuds@gallaudet.edu. Website: www.gallaudet.edu/ombuds 

Class Cancellation or University Closing:

If the university closes for any reason or the instructor unexpectedly miss class, that day’s work will be
conducted via Blackboard. Check the announcement section of Blackboard for specific instructions,
which will be posted by class time if at all possible.

Statement Regarding Possibility of Syllabus and/or Schedule Change:

At times, topics shown in this syllabus may be taught in a different sequence, new topics added, and
others adjusted. This will ensure the relevancy of the course and enhance your learning. Please be
prepared to be flexible and adjust as this class evolves. All notifications of changes will be done through
Blackboard announcements.

Credit Hour Compliance:

Please note that Gallaudet’s policy is that in each four credit hour traditional in-class course, students
spend 200 minutes in class per week for 15 weeks, resulting in 50 contact hours for the semester.
Students are expected to engage in reading and other assignments outsides of class for at least 6.66
hours per week, which adds up to 100 hours. These two sums should result in total student engagement
time of 150 hours for the course. Note that these time allotments are minimums, not maximums.

Student Learning Outcomes:

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

(Risk Management and Insurance Concepts) Critically examine, analyze, apply, integrate and
recommend logical actions based on a variety of insurance concepts, models and principles in
order to address hypothetical or real-world risk management issues.

(Communication) Communicate effectively in both American Sign Language and written English,
to present factual data, reports and analyses, propose strategies, and advocate policies intended
for risk management and insurance decision making.

(Quantitative Reasoning) Apply basic computational, statistical and quantitative reasoning skills
in collecting, analyzing, and interpreting numerical
information to make and justify
evidence-based risk management and insurance decisions.

(Technology) Use information technology and other technological tools to expedite and
enhance communication and quantitative reasoning skills in making risk management and
insurance decisions.

(Teamwork) Be able to work effectively in both leadership and support roles as part of diverse
teams to achieve a variety of risk management and insurance related tasks.

(Ethics) Consistently act in a professional, respectful, honest, fair and reasonable manner and to
apply ethical principles and logical reasoning to make and justify risk management, insurance,
and business decisions.

The Gallaudet University Student Learning Outcomes can be found through the following link:
http://www.gallaudet.edu/Documents/Academic/EMGS/Gallaudet_Student_Learning_Outcomes.pdf

SLOs

Critical Learning
Opportunities

Students will be able to
explain basic concepts of
risk and uncertainty as
they relate to the
insurance field

Students will be able to
describe the legal,
regulatory, and market
environment of the
insurance industry. Also,
students will be able to
identify elements related
to Social Security,
Medicare, and other
governmental benefit
programs

Students will be able to
define characteristics of
the following types of
insurance: life, medical,
disability income, long
term care, property and
liability, homeowners, and
automobile.

Students will be able to
identify and evaluate
appropriate insurance
coverage for specific
personal situations.

RMI SLO’s

1,3,6

GU
SLO’s

1,2,4

Tools for
Assessment and
Expected Levels
Score 70% or above
on examinations

Score C + or above on
Case study checklist

1,2,,4,6

2,3,4,5

Classroom discussion.
Assignment/H.W.(solve
end of chapter problems)
H.W. and quizzes.
Case Study ( Risk and
uncertainty as related to
insurance field)
Examination

H.W. Quizzes
End of Chapter Questions

Guest Speakers - various-
on several insurance
topics.

Individual class
presentations

Examination

Classroom discussion
H.W. Quizzes
End of Chapter Questions

C+ Average or better
on Homework and
quizzes graded work
checklist

Summary of Guest
Speaker’s
presentation

Score 70% or above
on the examination

C+ Average or better
on Homework and
quizzes graded work
check work
Score 70% or above
on the examination.

1,6

1,2,4

1,2,3,

1,2,4,5

Examination
Classroom discussion
H.W. Quizzes
End of Chapter Questions
End of Chapter Problems
Research/Presentation/T
erm Paper

Problem solving:
Score 3s or above on
Quantitative
Reasoning Rubric
and/or Solution
Checklist.

Score 2s or above on
GU writing rebric

Navigate is a student success mobile App that helps you navigate roadblocks to graduation and make
better choices along the way through interactive checklists, reminders, and alerts. To download the
Navigate Student App, please go to the Apple Store or Google Play and search for “Navigate Student.”
Once you download the App, then log-in using your University ID and password.  Faculty and
professional staff such as tutors and your advisors will be able to interact with you including scheduling
appointments through your Navigate App to ensure your success. If you have any questions or issues
contact navigate.support@gallaudet.edu. If you do not have a phone or tablet, you can connect to the
app on your computer or laptop at https://gallaudet.guide.eab.com.

Mask Etiquette
As we monitor the Mask Status (Green, Yellow, Red) to determine when and where we must
mask-up, there may be certain students, faculty, and/or staff who may wish to mask-up even if
they are not required to. This decision might cause stigma/taboo by others which might lead to
assumptions that they are not vaccinated, which we know not to be always true. We have
students who are vaccinated who prefer to wear masks all the time or  are medically unable to
be vaccinated so please be sensitive to their position with respect and civility.

What Will Happen if People Refuse to Wear a Mask

We expect that most if not all people will respect the indoor mask policy. If a person refuses to
wear a mask in class or takes off their mask and does not put it back on, they will be asked to
leave the class immediately and meet with their instructor about the incident. The instructor is
required to report such incidents to Student Accountability Restorative Practice (SARP)
immediately after class with the student’s name and a summary of the incident. SARP will follow
up right away with the student. Such incidents may lead to disciplinary action.

Safety on Campus

We are back on campus and the university is fully open. Our administration, staff and faculty
have worked hard to make our campus as safe as possible. We have required everyone to be
vaccinated or to be approved for a waiver (which requires strict mask-wearing requirements
indoors and outdoors). We now require everyone, vaccinated or not, to wear masks indoors as
part of DC Health requirements and the Yellow Mask Policy Status. Weekly COVID testing is
required for all members of our community, and everyone is required to submit a health
screening each time they enter our campus. With all of these requirements in place, we are
hopeful that we can provide a positive educational experience for our students on campus. In
turn, we ask our students to observe safety protocols and to make sensible and healthy
decisions for themselves both on and off campus that will protect themselves and others from
possible COVID exposure.

There Will be No Virtual Versions of Courses that are Face - to - Face

We all know how important face-to-face engagement is to our learning mission. We understand
that there are concerns from students about participating in person. Some students have
individually approached their faculty or advisors to ask for virtual versions of face-to-face
courses. Faculty teaching in person will not make course content for the semester available
asynchronously online or to offer hyflex options (where some students attend in person and
others join via zoom). Student Absences for Quarantine and/or Health Reasons

Students or faculty may become ill during the semester. In these situations, we will follow public
health and safety protocols.

Quarantine.
A number of students will need to quarantine upon arrival in Washington, DC
based on guidelines from the DC Department of Health for unvaccinated or partially
vaccinated individuals traveling to the area. Faculty with affected students in their classes,
have been asked to work with them on a short-term basis to allow them to complete
coursework while quarantining. Students in this situation should notify their instructors
directly of their circumstances.

Health absences.

Similarly, students may need to miss classes throughout the semester for
health reasons. Given that we want any student who is experiencing symptoms of illness to
refrain from attending in-person classes, we have asked faculty to be flexible in granting
short-term excused absences (i.e., one to two classes). The Office of the Dean of Student
Affairs will provide notice of absence for those students who need to take more prolonged
absences or undergo quarantine/isolation.
Faculty will support students who become ill during the semester as normal. Your
instructors will share PowerPoints or other in-class materials electronically, allow for
extensions on assignments, and ensure that students’ participation grades are not negatively
impacted. Students should be expected to make up for any missed work.

Contact Tracing.

The university will continue to test and contact trace for anyone who tests
positive for COVID-19 within our community and will notify instructors, support staff, and
classmates if an individual was in their presence while potentially infectious. If a student,
faculty, or staff member learns that an individual with whom they’ve interacted tested
positive but does not receive official notification, they should assume that contact tracing
has determined that the interaction took place outside that person’s infectious period.
Faculty and staff should direct questions to coronavirus@gallaudet.edu and suspected
exposure to contact.tracing@gallaudet.edu

Assignment

In this report, be sure to use effective description and analysis of issues in the professional
written report:

o Content within scope of assignment and complete
o Language focused and concise
o Effective transition between text, graphics, and tables
o Clean look, professionally formatted and appropriate non-text pictures and

charts

o Free from typos and grammatical mistakes
o Appropriate citation of research material supporting the report

Insurance Careers:  50 Points (3 pages, minimum)

Many jobs are opening up in the insurance industry. We will learn about these jobs through the
textbook readings, presentations and our discussions. Specifically;

● Actuary or Technical Analyst

● Investment Officer

● Underwriter

● Claims Adjuster

● Producer (Agent or Broker)

● Loss Control Consultant

● Reinsurer Staff

● Risk Manager

Your paper should include the following:

● The professional job description;
● Licenses and/or certifications required or recommended for the job;
● Skill and training that these professionals typically have;
● Professional organizations this type of professional can join;
● Why you may be attracted to the profession.
● Source material can include paper/electronic research, interviews with people working

in the profession, and/or resources you find to be helpful.

Research Paper/Presentation - Managing Risk - 5 Pages - 50 Points

Prepare a 5 page report for your Management Risk Report.  In this report, be sure to include at a
minimum: Remember to use citations.

Identification of Organization (5 points)

● Describe the relevant background of  the organization. For-profit/nonprofit, physical size,
number of employees, basic financial information, location, etc. External research is
required, and written text should be supported by tables and/or graphs.

● Any organization will qualify. Some ideas include: hotel, restaurant, apartment building,
office building, library, museum, publisher, art gallery, fitness center, day care center, dog
walking service, hospital/medical clinic, school, university, dry cleaner, bank, gas station,
movie theater, church/temple/mosque, parking garage, bowling alley, sports stadium,
recreation center, taxi service, retail store, department store, software developer,
television/radio station, movie studio, social work agency, construction company,
manufacturer, tour operator, farmer, airport, dentist/doctor/therapist’s office, law firm,
accounting firm, barber shop, funeral parlor, golf course, ocean shipping company,
satellite company, nightclub, insurance company or agent/broker, charity, etc.

Objectives (10 points)

● Identify and describe at least 3 pre-loss objectives and 3 post-loss objectives for the

organization and briefly describe the steps in your process to manage risk.

● Will you select a traditional approach to risk management, or will you adopt an
enterprise risk management approach? Explain why you chose this approach.

Loss Exposures (10 points)

organization.

● Identify and describe at least 3 tools that you will use to identify loss exposures for the

● Identify and describe at least 5 loss exposures for the organization.

Treatment of Loss Exposures (15 points)

● For the five (5) identified loss exposures, identify how you plan to measure, analyze and

prioritize these risks. Identify the steps in the risk management process.

● For each identified loss exposure, identify and describe at least 3 treatment strategies
(including both risk control and risk financing). If you plan to purchase an insurance
policy, identify which type of insurance covers this type of risk.

Conclusion/Next Steps (10 points)

● Describe how you will evaluate the effectiveness of your treatment strategies, and how

often you plan to monitor your risks and revise any ineffective strategies.

Quizzes/Reading Assignments:

Quizz Schedule and Reading Assignments will be posted on BlackBoard

Each essay will be a minimum of a one page summary from the previous reading assignment. You will be
expected to highlight key points of the reading assignment.

Essays:

Guest Speakers:

We will have guest speakers present to class. Guest speakers will include, but not limited to:
Risk Managers, Brokers, Underwriters, Life Insurance Agents, Insurance Executives, Current and
former RMI students. This will provide a great opportunity for you to learn from professionals
working in the insurance industry.  It will also allow you to ask many questions to these
professionals.

Extra Credit Opportunities:

There will be Extra Credit Opportunities. These will be discussed in class and posted on Blackboard.

Projected Schedule of Class

Date                            Class #

Chapter Title

Assignment

Presentation: Risk Manager

Presentation, Insurance Broker

Read Chapter 1
August 31 2021    1             Syllabus & Introduction
Read Chapter 2
Sept 2                     2
Essay Due
Sept 7                     3             Risk and Its Treatment
Read Chapter 3
Sept 9                     4             Insurance and Risk
Quiz # 1 / Essay
Sept 14                   5             Insurance and Risk
Read Chapter 4
Sept 16                   6              Introduction to Risk Management
Quiz # 2 / Essay
Sept 21                   7
Read Chapter 5
Sept 23                   8             Introduction to Risk Management
Sept 28                   9             Enterprise Risk Management
Quiz # 3 / Essay
Sept 30                  10           Types of Insurers and Marketing Systems                     Read Chapter 6
Quiz # 4 / Essay
Oct 5                      11           Insurance Company Operations
Read Chapter 7 & 8
Oct 7                      12
Read Chapter 9 & 10
Oct 12                    13           Government Regulation of Insurance
Quiz # 5 / Essay
Oct 14
Read Chapter 11,12,13
Oct 19                    15           Classroom Presentations
Read Chapter 18
Oct 21                    16
Read Chapter 19
Oct 26                    17          Social Insurance
Read Chapter 20, 21
Oct 28                    18          The Liability Risk
Quiz # 6 / Essay
Read Chapter 22,23
Nov 2                     19          Auto Insurance
Nov 4                     20          Auto Insurance
Read Chapter 25
Nov 9                     21          Commercial Property Insurance                                       Read Chapter 26
Quiz # 7 / Essay
Read Chapter 10,24

Life Insurance/Presentation

Presentation: Underwriter

1st Assignment Due

14

23

Research Project Due

Nov 11                   22          Commercial Liability Insurance
Nov 16
Nov 18                   24          Analysis of Insurance Contracts
Nov 30                   25          Financial Operations of insureds
Dec 2                     26          Other Property & Liability Coverage
Dec 7                     27          Crime Insurance
Dec 9                     28
Dec 14                   30
Dec 15-17             31           Final Exam Period TBA

Presentation Claims Adjuster
Study Day

Quiz # 8 / Essay
Read Chapter 27

Quiz # 9

