DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS

Life Insurance Syllabus

I. General Information:

Course Title:

Life Insurance

Course Number:

RMI 305

Semester:

Fall, 2021

Number of Credits: 3

Instructor Name:

James H. Bruner

Office Hours:

Tues: 4pm - 5pm, Thurs: 9am - 10am; Fri. 10am-12pm

Office Location:

Maguire Welcome Center, 2nd floor office

Email:

Zoom:

james.bruner@gallaudet.edu

https://gallaudet.zoom.us/j/635327846

Class Days/Time/Location: Tuesday /Thursday 12:30pm - 1:50pm

Catalog Description:

Primary course focus is on evaluating life insurance policies. The nature and
importance of life insurance within the individual and business perspective and
techniques for evaluating life insurance contracts will be covered. Whole Life,
Term Life and Key Person Life Insurance will be analyzed. Cost/benefit analysis of
various types of life insurance, both individual and business will be addressed.

Prerequisite: RMI 201 or professors consent.

Course Materials:

Textbook: Financial Planning, 1st edition, Michael W. Elliott, CPCU 556, The Institutes,

Risk and Insurance Knowledge Group.

Other handouts will be provided. All announcements, grades, and other relevant

information will be posted on Blackboard

II. Additional Requirements/Readings
● Premature Death Loss Exposure
● Term Life Insurance
● Whole Life Insurance
● Selecting a Life Insurance Plan
● Determining the amount of Life Insurance to own
● Life Insurance concepts

● Using Life Insurance to enhance the value of a Business
● Universal Life Insurance
● Variable Universal Life Insurance
● Identify and describe other types of Life Insurance: Modified Life, Preferred Risks,

Joint Life, Second-to-Die, Savings Bank Life, Home Service Life, Group Life.

Bison Letter Grade Equivalencies:

The Department of Business grading system is:

93% and Above
90 – 92%
87 - 89%
83 - 86%
80 – 82%
77 – 79%
73 – 76%
70 – 72%
67 – 69%
60 – 66%
Below 60%

A
A-
B+
B
B-
C+
C
C-
D+
D
F

Attendance: No more than three excused absences

Major Assignments and Grading Policy:

Attendance & Participation:  20%
Research Papers, (2)  25%
Quizzes:  25%
Final Exam 30%

Course Schedule:

August 31: Introduction and overview of class
Sept. 2:            History of Life Insurance
September 7:   Evaluate the Characteristics, Types and Purpose of Term Life Insurance
September 9:   Evaluate the Characteristics, Types and Purpose of Term Life Insurance
September 14: Evaluate the Characteristics, Types and Purpose of Whole Life Insurance
September 16: Evaluate the Characteristics, Types and Purpose of Whole Life Insurance
September 21: Presentation, New York Life Insurance Company
September 23: Quiz
September 28: Evaluate the Needs Approach and the Human Life Value Approach for

determining the appropriate amount of insurance
September 30: Evaluate how life insurance can be used to enhance the value of a

business and provide for business continuity

October 5: Evaluate the characteristics and purpose of Universal Life Insurance
October 7: Presentation, Licensed Life Insurance Agent
October 12: Research Paper # 1 due
October 14: Quiz
October 19: Presentation of Research Paper
October 21: Presentation of research paper
October 26: Selecting a Life Insurance Plan
October 28: Evaluate the financial impact of a premature death personal loss
exposure on the following types of family structures:

● Single without children
● Single-parent families
● Two-income families
● Traditional families
● Blended families
● Sandwiched families

November 2: Discussion, Insurable Interest concept
November 4: Presentation, Life Insurance Consultant
November 9: Research Paper # 2 due.
November 11: Review Vocabulary
November 16: Quiz
November 18: Open discussion: How to become a Licensed Life Insurance Agent
November 30: Discuss the basic concepts underlying the major types of Life Insurance
December 2: Evaluate underwriting guidelines for various life insurance types
December 7: Review of Class Material
December 9: Extra Credit Presentations
December 14: Study Day
December 15 - 17 Final Exam Period TBA

Masking Requirements

The university has a mask policy that utilizes three colors: green, yellow and red. Please click on
this
link to read about the university’s mask policy: Gallaudet University mask policy.
Under the current Yellow Mask Policy Status, all faculty and students are required to wear
masks
indoors, including in face-to-face classes that are held indoors. We have ordered a very large
supply
of clear masks that fit above the nose and under the chin. It takes some time to get used to
them but
please follow the mask posted mask status.

Mask Etiquette
As we monitor the Mask Status (Green, Yellow, Red) to determine when and where we must
mask-up, there may be certain students, faculty, and/or staff who may wish to mask-up even if
they are not required to. This decision might cause stigma/taboo by others which might lead to
assumptions that they are not vaccinated, which we know not to be always true. We have
students who are vaccinated who prefer to wear masks all the time or  are medically unable to
be vaccinated so please be sensitive to their position with respect and civility.

What Will Happen if People Refuse to Wear a Mask

We expect that most if not all people will respect the indoor mask policy. If a person refuses to
wear a mask in class or takes off their mask and does not put it back on, they will be asked to
leave the class immediately and meet with their instructor about the incident. The instructor is
required to report such incidents to Student Accountability Restorative Practice (SARP)
immediately after class with the student’s name and a summary of the incident. SARP will follow
up right away with the student. Such incidents may lead to disciplinary action.

Safety on Campus

We are back on campus and the university is fully open. Our administration, staff and faculty
have worked hard to make our campus as safe as possible. We have required everyone to be
vaccinated or to be approved for a waiver (which requires strict mask-wearing requirements
indoors and outdoors). We now require everyone, vaccinated or not, to wear masks indoors as
part of DC Health requirements and the Yellow Mask Policy Status. Weekly COVID testing is
required for all members of our community, and everyone is required to submit a health
screening each time they enter our campus. With all of these requirements in place, we are
hopeful that we can provide a positive educational experience for our students on campus. In
turn, we ask our students to observe safety protocols and to make sensible and healthy
decisions for themselves both on and off campus that will protect themselves and others from
possible COVID exposure.

There Will be No Virtual Versions of Courses that are Face - to - Face

We all know how important face-to-face engagement is to our learning mission. We understand
that there are concerns from students about participating in person. Some students have
individually approached their faculty or advisors to ask for virtual versions of face-to-face
courses. Faculty teaching in person will not make course content for the semester available
asynchronously online or to offer hyflex options (where some students attend in person and
others join via zoom). Student Absences for Quarantine and/or Health Reasons

Students or faculty may become ill during the semester. In these situations, we will follow public
health and safety protocols.

Quarantine.
A number of students will need to quarantine upon arrival in Washington, DC

based on guidelines from the DC Department of Health for unvaccinated or partially
vaccinated individuals traveling to the area. Faculty with affected students in their classes,
have been asked to work with them on a short-term basis to allow them to complete
coursework while quarantining. Students in this situation should notify their instructors
directly of their circumstances.

Health absences.

Similarly, students may need to miss classes throughout the semester for
health reasons. Given that we want any student who is experiencing symptoms of illness to
refrain from attending in-person classes, we have asked faculty to be flexible in granting
short-term excused absences (i.e., one to two classes). The Office of the Dean of Student
Affairs will provide notice of absence for those students who need to take more prolonged
absences or undergo quarantine/isolation.
Faculty will support students who become ill during the semester as normal. Your
instructors will share PowerPoints or other in-class materials electronically, allow for
extensions on assignments, and ensure that students’ participation grades are not negatively
impacted. Students should be expected to make up for any missed work.

Contact Tracing.

The university will continue to test and contact trace for anyone who tests
positive for COVID-19 within our community and will notify instructors, support staff, and
classmates if an individual was in their presence while potentially infectious. If a student,
faculty, or staff member learns that an individual with whom they’ve interacted tested
positive but does not receive official notification, they should assume that contact tracing
has determined that the interaction took place outside that person’s infectious period.
Faculty and staff should direct questions to coronavirus@gallaudet.edu and suspected
exposure to contact.tracing@gallaudet.edu.

Credit Hour Compliance:

This course earns 3 credits; therefore, students will spend 150 minutes in class per week for 15
weeks, resulting in 37.5 hours of instructional time for the semester. Students are expected
to spend at least 5 hours per week for a total of 75 hours on outside-of-class preparation
(e.g. readings, assignments). These two sums should result in total student engagement
time of 112.5 hours for the course. Note that these time allotments are minimums, not
maximums.

Statement Regarding Possibility of Syllabus and/or Schedule Change:

At times, topics shown in this syllabus may be taught in a different sequence, new topics added,
and others adjusted. This will ensure the relevancy of the course and enhance your learning.
Please be prepared to be flexible and adjust as this class evolves. All assignments and
specifics are noted on the board at the start of each class.  All notifications of changes will
be done through Blackboard announcements and emails.

III. Class Policies:

Gallaudet University Academic Integrity Policy:
Do not plagiarize in this or any other Gallaudet University class.  If you see a good idea and use
it in a paper, presentation, or even a comment in class, add the author’s name before or
after your comment.  This goes for when you exactly quote something or even when you just
mention an idea from the author. All students must comply with the Gallaudet University
Academic Integrity Policy. Using other people’s work as your own or using the same work for
another class for this one is dishonest and only cheating yourself out of a good education. It
is your responsibility to understand and follow this policy. The official policy can be found at
http://www.gallaudet.edu/academic-catalog/registration-and-policies/undergraduate-policies/aca

demic-integrity.html

Gallaudet Undergraduate Academic Calendar
It is the student’s responsibility to familiarize themselves with Gallaudet University’s Academic

Calendar with respect to when classes meet and holidays are.  The Academic Calendar can
be found at the Gallaudet University website at
http://www.gallaudet.edu/registrars-office/academic-calendars.html

OSWD Academic Accommodation Policy:
Students who require accommodations need to register with the Office for Students with

Disabilities (OSWD) located in SAC 1022 in order to have their status certified and recorded.
OSWD will contact the instructors to arrange for accommodation, but only after certification
has been determined. No accommodation can be provided prior to authorization by OSWD.
For more information about OSWD policy, go to
http://www.gallaudet.edu/academic-catalog/registration-and-policies/undergraduate-policies/
academic-accommodations-policy.html

ADA Compliance
For information on your rights under the ADA and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation ACT, please
see https://www.gallaudet.edu/af/section-1-general/110-reasonable-accommodation.html

Class Cancellation or University Closing:
If the university closes for any reason or the instructor unexpectedly miss class, that day’s work
will be conducted via Blackboard. Check the announcement section of Blackboard for
specific instructions, which will be posted by class time if at all possible.

IV. Student Learning Outcomes (SLOs):
Please see the end of the syllabus for a complete chart of SLOs, critical learning opportunities,

assessment methods, and alignment with program and university outcomes as well as those
required by the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP).

Student Learning Outcomes (SLOs) and Assessment of Learning:

This chart shows the primary learning outcomes for this course, the learning
opportunities for developing those outcomes, and the tools used to assess those
outcomes.  It also shows how the course outcomes align with the outcomes of the Risk
Management and Insurance (RMI) program and of the university.

Student Learning Outcomes

RMI 305 students will

Critical
Learning
Opportunities

Tools for Assessment
and Expected Levels

Demonstrate ability to evaluate various life
insurance contracts including Whole Life,
Term Life and Key Person Life Insurance

Homework
assignments

Assignment
Tied-Checklist

Exam Tied- Checklist

RMI
Program
SLOs

2, 3, 4, 7a,
7b

GU SLOs

1, 2, 4

Exam
questions
Homework
assignments

Exam
questions

Demonstrate skills to use technology models
in evaluating life insurance mortality tables
used within the life insurance industry

Assignment
Tied-Checklist

3, 4, 7a,
7b

2

Exam Tied- Checklist

Demonstrate critical thinking and quantitative
skills through identifying life insurance related
issues or problems by analyzing data,
evaluating evidence, constructing clearly
articulated positions and conclusions.

Demonstrate ability to apply ethical
judgements in business when applying life
insurance coverage

10-15 pages of
research paper

GU Writing Rubric/
Project- Tied Checklist

2, 3, 4, 7a,
7b, 7c

1, 2, 4

10-15-minute
presentation

GU Presentation rubric

Homework
assignments

Assignment
Tied-Checklist

6

5

Exam Tied- Checklist

Exam
questions

Identify, interpret, and evaluate issues and
implications with RMI in the global business
environment.

Homework
assignments

Assignment
Tied-Checklist

5, 7a

2, 3

Risk Management and Insurance (RMI) Program SLOs AY18-19

Graduates of BS in RMI Program will demonstrate competence and learning outcomes
in the following seven domains:

1. Accurately apply fundamental business concepts, models and principles to
address hypothetical or real-world business issues. (Common Business
Knowledge & Inquiry)

2. Communicate effectively in both American Sign Language and written English
in various formats and styles to a variety of audiences in multiple business
contexts. (Communication)

3. Apply technological tools, and statistical and quantitative reasoning skills in
analyzing and evaluating numerical information to support evidence-based
business decisions. (Quantitative Reasoning & Technological Skills)

4. Critically assess business problems and develop well-supported solutions.

(Critical Thinking & Problem Solving)

5. Critically evaluate all business opportunities and challenges using a global

business perspective. (Global Dimension)

6. Consistently act in a professional, ethical, and socially responsible manner, and

collaborate effectively in teamwork when required. (Ethics & Social
Responsibility)

7. RMI Discipline Specialty Knowledge and Inquiry

7a. Analyze and assess coverage adequacy in common insurance policies.

7b. Apply RMI knowledge and technical tools in evaluating, treating, and

monitoring risk factors facing various business entities.

7c. Articulate effective insurance policy recommendations based on critical

analysis in written reports and presentations.

Gallaudet University
Student Learning Outcomes

The Gallaudet University Student Learning Outcomes can be found through the following link:

https://www.gallaudet.edu/academic-catalog/undergraduate-education/learning-outcomes.html

