 

Gallaudet University 
Department of Business  
 
Connecting the Business of 
INSURANCE OPERATIONS 
 
RMI 310 
 3 Credit Hours  
 
 

 

 

 

Instructor: Gary Meyer   
Email: Gary.Meyer@Gallaudet.edu 
Videophone: 585.286.3442          
Office Hours: Please send email to set up a VP appointment 
Format of the course: Synchronous Instruction       
                                            
Course Description: 
The goal is to enable students to understand how Insurance Companies operate and how their functions 
work together to create and deliver insurance products efficiently.  
 
Required Materials: 

●  Connecting the Business of Insurance Operations, 1st edition (CPCU 520), Edited by Ann E. Myhr 

Inventory code: SABC520 
Product Key: SABC520F-KEY 

 

 
Student Learning Outcomes (SLOs):   
Please see the end of the syllabus for a complete chart of SLOs, critical learning opportunities, assessment 
methods, and alignment with program and university outcomes as well as those required by the 
Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP). 
 
Online Material: 
Blackboard will be used to supplement in class work, assignments and tests. Announcements and materials 
can be found there so be sure to check it often. 
 
Attendance Policy:  
As a matter of University policy you are expected to attend scheduled classes in which you are enrolled. Good 
attendance is a factor in the establishment of final grades and will be considered if a final grade is border line.  
 
Grades: 
The final course grade will be based on your performance on the assignment(s), Presentation(s), exam(s), 
final exam, and the attendance and participation using the following weights: 
 

 

Evaluation 
Attendance & participation 
Assignments (2 Projects) 
Weekly Quiz (10 quiz) 
Exams 

Percentage 
15 % 
15 % 
40% 
30 % 

Lecture/Assignment/Participation/Quiz: 

•  The quizzes will be posted on Blackboard. 
•  The lecture/video/powerpoint will be posted on Blackboard. 
•  There will be questions at end of each lecture/video that we will review and discuss during class. 
•  The quiz must be submitted before each lecture. 
•  You will receive no credit if the quiz is not submitted before class. 
•  There will be NO MAKE-UP QUIZZES  

Exams: 

●  There will be two cumulative exams during the semester. 
●  Exams will be multiple choice and short answer. 
●  There will be NO MAKE-UP EXAMS.  

 
Grading Policy: 
The following grading scale will be used in determining your final grade: 
 

Grade 
A 
A- 
B+ 
B 
B- 
C+ 
C 
C- 
D+ 
D 
F 

Equivalence 
93-100 
90-92 
87-89 
83-86 
80-82 
77-79 
73-76 
70-72 
67-69 
60-66 
Below 60 

 
Gallaudet University Academic Integrity Policy:  
It  is  the  student’s  responsibility  to  familiarize  themselves  and  comply  with  the  Gallaudet  University 
Undergraduate  Academic  Integrity  Policy, which  can be  found  in the Gallaudet University  Undergraduate 
Catalog or on the Gallaudet University website at: http://catalog.gallaudet.edu/Catalog/Registration_and_ 
Policies/Undergrad_Policies/Academic_Integrity.html  
 
OSWD Academic Accommodation Policy:  
Students who require accommodations need to register with the Office for Students with Disabilities (OSWD) 
located in SAC 1022 in order to have their status certified and recorded. OSWD will contact the instructors to 
arrange for accommodation, but only after certification has been determined. No accommodation can be 
provided prior to authorization by OSWD.  
For more information about OSWD policy, go to 
http://www.gallaudet.edu/Office_for_Students_with_Disabilities/General_Information/Academic_Accomm
odations_Policy.html  
Class Cancellation or University Closing: 
If  the  university  closes  for  any  reason  or  the  instructor  unexpectedly  miss  class,  that  day’s  work  will  be 
conducted via Blackboard. Check the announcement section of Blackboard for specific instructions, which 
will be posted by class time if at all possible.  
 

Statement Regarding Possibility of Syllabus and/or Schedule Change:   
At times, topics shown in this syllabus may be taught in a different sequence, new topics added, and others 
adjusted. This will ensure the relevancy of the course and enhance your learning.  Please be prepared to be 
flexible  and  adjust  as  this  class  evolves.    All  notifications  of  changes  will  be  done  through  Blackboard 
announcements. 
 
Credit Hour Compliance: 
Please note that Gallaudet’s policy is that in each three credit hour traditional in-class course, students spend 
150 minutes in class per week for 15 weeks, resulting in 37.5 contact hours for the semester. Students are 
expected to engage in reading and other assignments outsides of class for at least 5 hours per week, which 
adds up to 75 hours. These two sums should result in total student engagement time of 112.5 hours for the 
course. Note that these time allotments are minimums, not maximums.   
 
Risk Management and Insurance (RMI) Program SLOs AY18-19 

Graduates of BS in RMI Program will demonstrate competence and learning outcomes in 
the following seven domains:   

1.  Accurately apply fundamental business concepts, models and principles to address hypothetical 

or real-world business issues. (Common Business Knowledge & Inquiry) 

2.  Communicate effectively in both American Sign Language and written English in various formats 

and styles to a variety of audiences in multiple business contexts. (Communication) 

3.  Apply technological tools, and statistical and quantitative reasoning skills in analyzing and 

evaluating numerical information to support evidence-based business decisions. (Quantitative 
Reasoning & Technological Skills) 

4.  Critically assess business problems and develop well-supported solutions. (Critical Thinking & 

Problem Solving) 

(Global Dimension) 

5.  Critically evaluate all business opportunities and challenges using a global business perspective. 

6.  Consistently act in a professional, ethical, and socially responsible manner, and collaborate 

effectively in teamwork when required. (Ethics & Social Responsibility) 

7. RMI Discipline Specialty Knowledge and Inquiry 

a. Analyze and assess coverage adequacy in common insurance policies.  

b. Apply RMI knowledge and technical tools in evaluating, treating, and monitoring risk 
factors facing various business entities.  

c. Articulate effective insurance policy recommendations based on critical analysis in written 
reports and presentations. 

Gallaudet University 

Student Learning Outcomes (SLOs) and Assessment of Learning 

 
The Gallaudet University Student Learning Outcomes can be found through the following link: 
http://www.gallaudet.edu/Documents/Academic/EMGS/Gallaudet_Student_Learning_Outcomes.pdf 

 

 

 

  

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Projected Schedule of Class: RMI-310 

Date 
Week 1 
Week 2 

Week 3 

Topic 
Introduction 
 
Understanding How 
Insurers Operations 
Regulating Insurance 
Operations 

Video/Reading 

 

Quiz Due 

 

Assignment 1-Video 

• Quiz # 1 

Assignment 2-Video 

• Quiz # 2 

Week 4  Marketing and 

Assignment 3-Video 

• Quiz # 3 

Assignment 4-Video 
Assignment 6-Video 

•  Quiz # 4 

• Quiz # 5 (Assignment 

Week 5 
Week 6 

Week 7 
  Week 8 
Week 9 

Distribution 
Insurance 
Underwriting Risk 
Analyzing Claims 

 
 

Review for Exam # 1 
Project 
Understanding Risk 
Control and 
Premium Auditing 

Insurance Rates 

Reinsurance 

Week 12  Evaluating 
Information 
Technology Needs 

Assignment 5-Video 

Week 10  Developing 

Assignment 7-Video 

Week 11  Exploring 

Assignment 8-Video 

Assignment 9-Video 

•  Quiz # 9 

Week 13  No class 
Week 14  Examining Strategic 

 
Assignment 10-Video 

•  Quiz # 10 

Management 

Week 15  Project 
Week 16  Final Exam 

Review for Final 
 

 

 
 

#6) 
 
 

•  Quiz # 6 

(Assignment #5) 

•  Quiz # 7 

•  Quiz #8 

