DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS

Business Administration Program Syllabus



BUS 221-01: MARKETING

FALL 2021

Credit Hours: 3.0

Tuesdays & Thursdays, 2:00pm to 3:20pm, SAC 2213



Dr. Michael Janger

Office: EMG 206

Phone/VP: 212-392-4114

E-mail: michael.janger@gallaudet.edu

Office Hours: Tuesday 3:30pm-5:30pm; Wednesday 1pm-3pm



INTRODUCTION



This course examines the basic principles of marketing and provides the opportunity to develop the critical analysis and management skills needed by successful marketers. Within the framework of the "product, price, promotion, distribution, and customer" elements of marketing, course topics include market segmentation, targeting, positioning, consumer behavior, integrated marketing communication, marketing ethics and social responsibility, and the global dimensions of marketing (including e-marketing).



Prerequisites: BUS 101 (B or better) and MAT 125, or the equivalent.



REQUIRED READINGS:



Lamb, C., Hair, J. and McDaniel, C., MKTG, 13th Edition. Cengage Learning, 2021.

Additional articles and reading materials as provided by the instructor. There may be an additional cost for some materials due to copyright restrictions. (Please check with the instructor in advance if you need more information.)



TAKING THIS COURSE



BUS 221 is being taught this semester as an in-person, face-to-face course. You will be responsible for checking Blackboard daily to check on updates, submit your assignments, participate in classroom sessions and discussion boards, and perform other necessary classwork including quizzes and exams.

 

Announcements about the course will be posted regularly, including assignments, course changes, and other essential information. These course announcements will be emailed to all students at their Gallaudet email addresses, so please check your email inbox regularly. If you are using a private email account, it is YOUR responsibility to ensure that your Gallaudet email address is set up to automatically forward emails to your preferred email account, so that you will not miss any messages and announcements for this course.



BISON LETTER GRADE EQUIVALENCIES



The Department of Business grading system is:

Percent Grade

Letter Grade

GPA Points

93% and Above 

A

4.0

90 – 92% 

A-

3.7

87 - 89% 

B+

3.3

83 - 86% 

B

3.0

80 – 82% 

B-

2.7

77 – 79% 

C+

2.3

73 – 76% 

C

2.0

70 – 72% 

C-

1.7

67 – 69% 

D+

1.3

60 – 66% 

D

1.0

Below 60% 

F

0.0



To determine the final grade, your overall grade will be rounded to the nearest .5. For example, if a student has a grade of 89.5% at the end of the BUS 221 course, it will be rounded up to 80% for a final letter grade of A- instead of a B+.



MAJOR ASSIGNMENTS AND GRADING WEIGHTS



Attendance

5%

Class Participation & Activities

10%

Chapter Quizzes

10%

Mini-Exams (4 exams, 3.75% each)

15%

Paper #1: Company Assessment (Individual Paper)

10%

Paper #2: Industry Assessment (Team Paper and Presentation)

10%

Marketing Strategy Paper

20%

Creative Project – Branding & Advertising Presentation

10%

Final Exam

10%

Total

100%



Attendance



Attendance is strongly expected, and I will be marking your attendance and participation during the designated times we are meeting for class sessions, which is Tuesdays and Thursdays from 2:00pm to 3:20pm Eastern Time.



Three unexcused absences are allowed. Absences beyond the 3-absence limit, frequent lateness, and any class behavior issues will impact your attendance score. Frequent absences and/or significant class behavior issues will result in zero credit for the semester for class attendance. If the absences are extremely excessive (more than 50% of class sessions) and/or there are major class behavior issues that disrupt the course learning environment, a low or failing grade will be given for the entire course.



Only absences due to medical and family reasons – with proper documentation such as a medical note – will be excused. Emails that explain why you are absent (“I overslept”, “I ate something bad in my dinner last night”, etc.) will not be accepted as excused absences. Only valid documentation is accepted.



Class Participation and Activities (10% of Grade) 



Participation in classroom sessions is an essential component of learning. Your participation in class discussion and in-class collaboration activities help you digest and master marketing concepts and skills, and improve your problem-solving skills in business situations.



If I learned a lot from you, then you have done very well with class participation, and you will get a perfect class participation score. I approach this course in two ways: (1) to share with you what I know about marketing, and (2) you can share with me what you know and have discovered about marketing. This creates a rich, productive, and fun learning and discovery experience for all of us. Marketing demands a great deal of teamwork and collaboration, so class participation in this course is far more important than in other courses I teach.





Paper #1: Company Assessment (Due Thursday October 7th, 10% of Grade)



You will be assigned a company for this paper. You will describe the company’s current marketing strategy, and determine if the strategy is appropriate. 



Expected Study Time: 8-10 hours.





Paper #2: Industry Assessment (Due Thursday November 4th, 10% of Grade)



This assignment is a team paper and in-class presentation. Each team is assigned an industry where it will assess the major companies within the industry, evaluate their marketing strategies and how they compete against each other, and evaluate the future of this industry. The team will present its findings to the class on November 4th, and submit the paper by the end of the day. 



Expected Study Time: 8-10 hours.





Marketing Strategy Paper (Due Thursday, December 9th, 20% of Grade)

You will be assigned a company that is struggling, and recommend a detailed new marketing strategy that you believe will bring the company back to profitability and a stronger presence in its industry. You will assess the company’s business model, its financials, its competitors, its markets, its communication strategy, and its current marketing strategy. Then you will recommend a new marketing strategy for the company.



Expected Study Time: 20 hours





Creative Project: Branding & Advertising Presentation (10% of Grade)

This is a team activity which provides assigned teams with hands-on insight into the concepts associated with Chapter 10, focusing on product, branding, and packaging decisions. 



The team creative project is to be presented in-class in presentation format on Thursday, April 29.



Expected study tim: 6-8 hours





Comprehensive Final Examination (10% of Grade)

The comprehensive final examination for BUS 221 will be held on Thursday, December 16th from 3:30pm to 5:30pm. This examination will cover all chapters covered in this course, as well as class discussions and readings, and consist of multiple-choice questions and other question types as appropriate. 



Expected Study Time for the final exam: 10 hours 








COURSE SCHEDULE



Attached below is the course schedule. I will be responsive to student interests and to the continuity of the material in this course. Hence, at times, topics shown in this syllabus may be taught in a different sequence, new topics added or substituted, and others modified. This will ensure the relevance of the course and enhance your learning. Please be prepared to be flexible and adjust accordingly. Check Blackboard Ultra for any announcements regarding changes to the course schedule.









Credit Hour Compliance Statement

This course earns 3 credits; therefore, it will meet for at least 37.5 hours of instructional time and students are expected to spend at least 75 hours on outside-of-class preparation (e.g., readings, assignments, papers, etc.). These two sums should result in total student engagement time of 112.5 hours for the course. Note that these time allotments are minimums, not maximums.



Statement Regarding Possibility of Syllabus and/or Schedule Change:  

At times, topics shown in this syllabus may be taught in a different sequence, new topics added, and others adjusted. This will ensure the relevancy of the course and enhance your learning.  Please be prepared to be flexible and adjust as this class evolves. All notifications of changes will be done through Blackboard announcements and emails.



CLASS POLICIES:



Gallaudet University Academic Integrity Policy:  

Do not plagiarize in this or any other Gallaudet University class.  If you see a good idea and use it in a paper, presentation, or even a comment in class, add the author’s name before or after your comment.  This goes for when you exactly quote something or even when you just mention an idea from the author. All students must comply with the Gallaudet University Academic Integrity Policy. Using other people’s work as your own or using the same work for another class for this one is dishonest and only cheating yourself out of a good education. It is your responsibility to understand and follow this policy. The official policy can be found at

http://www.gallaudet.edu/academic-catalog/registration-and-policies/undergraduate-policies/academic-integrity.html

Gallaudet Undergraduate Academic Calendar

It is your responsibility to familiarize yourself with Gallaudet University’s Academic Calendar with respect to when classes meet and holidays are.  The Academic Calendar can be found at the Gallaudet University website at http://www.gallaudet.edu/registrars-office/academic-calendars/undergraduate-2016-2017.html



OSWD Academic Accommodation Policy: 

Students who require accommodations need to register with the Office for Students with Disabilities (OSWD) located in SAC 1022 in order to have their status certified and recorded. OSWD will contact the instructors to arrange for accommodation, but only after certification has been determined. No accommodation can be provided prior to authorization by OSWD. For more information about OSWD policy, go to http://www.gallaudet.edu/academic-catalog/registration-and-policies/undergraduate-policies/academic-accommodations-policy.html




ADA Compliance 

For information on your rights under the ADA and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, please see https://www.gallaudet.edu/af/section-1-general/110-reasonable-accommodation.html



Class Cancellation or University Closing:

If the university closes for any reason or the instructor unexpectedly misses class, that day’s work will be conducted via Blackboard. Check the announcement section of Blackboard for specific instructions, which will be posted by class time if at all possible.



Reporting Responsibilities:

While I want you to feel comfortable coming to me with issues you may be struggling with or concerns you may be having, please be aware that I have some reporting requirements that are part of my job requirements at Gallaudet University.



For example, if you inform me of an issue of sexual harassment, sexual assault, or discrimination I will keep the information as private as I can, but I am required to bring it to the attention of the Title IX Coordinator or EEO/AA office. If you would like to talk to those offices directly, they can be reached by contacting Jennie Sivak through VP (202-759-1734) or at her office in College Hall 110 or at the following website: https://www.gallaudet.edu/title-ix. Additionally, you can also report incidents or complaints to DPS. You can also get support at CAPS (Counseling and Psychological Services), SHS (Student Health Services) and the Ombudsman. 



Another common example is if you are struggling with an issue that may be traumatic or unusual stress. I will likely inform the campus Behavioral Intervention Team (BIT) or CAPS. If you would like to reach out directly to them for assistance, you can contact them at https://www.gallaudet.edu/student-affairs/behavior-intervention-team. 



Finally, know that I am always willing to listen and give advice if needed. 





STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES (SLOS) AND ASSESSMENT OF LEARNING: 

Please see the end of the syllabus for a complete chart of SLOs, critical learning opportunities, assessment methods, and alignment with program and university outcomes as well as those required by the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP).




Business Administration Program



Student Learning Outcomes AY 2019 - 2020

Graduates of BS in Business Administration Program will demonstrate competence and learning outcomes in the following six domains: 



Accurately apply fundamental business concepts, models and principles to address hypothetical or real-world business issues. (Common Business Knowledge & Inquiry)



Communicate effectively in both American Sign Language and written English in various formats and styles to a variety of audiences in multiple business contexts. (Communication)



Apply technological tools, and statistical and quantitative reasoning skills in analyzing and evaluating numerical information to support evidence-based business decisions. (Quantitative Reasoning & Technological Skills)



Critically assess business problems and develop well-supported solutions. (Critical Thinking & Problem Solving)



Critically evaluate all business opportunities and challenges using a global business perspective. (Global Dimension)



Consistently act in a professional, ethical, and socially responsible manner, and collaborate effectively in teamwork when required. (Ethics & Social Responsibility)




Gallaudet University

Student Learning Outcomes



A Gallaudet education provides students with opportunities to develop as wellness-grounded, proudly bilingual, career-ready critical thinkers, who are digitally aware, ethical, scientifically literate global citizens. Gallaudet’s curriculum provides learning experiences to promote the development of Gallaudet Scholars. Below are Gallaudet University’s Student Learning Outcomes:



Wellness: Recognize how my choices can transform my health, well-being, and ability to thrive; seek support and utilize resources for personal growth; and work collaboratively to promote wellness on campus and within myself.



Bilingualism: Use American Sign Language (ASL) and written English to communicate effectively with diverse audiences for a variety of purposes.



Career Readiness: Develop career decision-making skills and competencies by engaging in theoretical and experiential learning.



Critical Thinking: Think critically and innovatively, and express myself creatively, making connections within and across disciplines.



Digital Awareness: Employ data and technology in effective, competent, fair, accountable, transparent, and responsible (ethical) ways.



Ethics: Formulate reasoned decisions about ethical issues that lead to wise action.



Science Literacy: Evaluate evidence derived from systematic analysis of quantitative and qualitative data to address issues that pertain to the experiences of individuals in societies.



Global Citizenship: Articulate knowledge of intersectional identities within a global society and demonstrate intercultural knowledge, cultural competence, and skills in constructive civic discourse on the local, national, and global levels.





Student Learning Outcomes (SLOs) and Assessment of Learning: 

This chart shows the primary learning outcomes for this course, the learning opportunities for developing those outcomes, and the tools used to assess those outcomes.  It also shows how the course outcomes align with the outcomes of the Business Administration program and of the university.





BUS 221

Student Learning Outcomes

Critical Learning Opportunities

Tools for Assessment and Expected Levels

Business Administration Program SLOs

GU SLOs

Understand and apply marketing vocabulary, concepts and theories in the marketplace

Class discussion



Quizzes, exams, and Final Exam



Papers and presentations



Quizzes and Exam Scores



Paper assignment rubrics



1. Business Concepts

3. Career Readiness



4. Critical Thinking



Develop business communication skills in written English and in ASL and apply to specific business formats (summary, reflection & analysis, memo, presentation)





Papers and presentations

AAC&U writing rubric



Gallaudet ASL presentation rubric 





2. Communication

2. Bilingualism



3. Career Readoiness



5. Digital Awareness

Make decisions through evaluating information, assessing opportunities and risks, understanding and out-performing competitors 

Creative Project



Papers and presentations



Creative Project rubric

2. Communication



3. Quantitative Reasoning



4. Technological Skills





4. Critical Thinking



7. Science Literacy



												Develop understanding of business from both an international and ethical perspective



Class discussion



Papers

AAC&U Ethical Reasoning rubric



6. Ethics

1. Wellness



6. Ethics



8. Global Citizenship

Develop skills in Leadership and Teamwork



Team Paper (Paper #2)



Team Creative Project

Teamwork Rubric



5. Teamwork

1. Wellness



8. Global Citizenship



												Use presentation technology to analyze and communicate business information



Team Creative Project



Team Paper #2 Presentation

Presentation rubrics for Creative Project and Paper #2



2. Communication



4. Technological Skills

3. Career Readiness



5. Digital Awareness









1