Department of Business 

800 Florida Avenue, N.E. 

Washington, DC 20002 

Fall 2021 

COURSE SYLLABUS 



    SOCIAL 

ENTREPRENEURSHIP 

AN INNOVATION & ENTREPRENEURSHIP INSTITUTE COURSE 

BUS 390.01 / GSR 230.04







Fall 2021 

Table of Contents 

 

	Professor’s Bio                                                                                                                            3		

	Course Expectations                                                                                                                   3    

		      Course Overview	3 

	      Course Materials	4 

	      Writing Style	4

	       Late Submission Policy                                                                                                                      4

	      Prerequisites	4 

	      Credit Hours	4 

	      Course Assignments	4	 

	Course Grading	5 

	Attendance / Participation                                                                                                           6

	What to Bring to Class                                                                                                                6 

	Midterm/Final Exam                                                                                                                     6 

	Course Schedule                                                                                                                    6-10 

	Policies                                                                                                                                      11

	        Academic Integrity Policy	11 

	        Academic Accommodations Policy	11 

	        Reporting Responsibilities                                                                                                 11

	        Notice of Nondiscrimination                                                                                              12

	        Title IX Reporting                                                                                                               12

	        Bilingual Commitment                                                                                                       12

	        Multicultural  Commitment                                                                                                13

	        Religious Observance Policy                                                                                             13

	        Name and Pronouns                                                                                                          13                         

	University Policies and Important Links                                                                              13-15		  Course Student Learning Outcomes	15 

	Business Program SLO’s	16 

	Gallaudet University SLO’s                                                                                                   16-17 







“Social Entrepreneurship” 

An Innovation & Entrepreneurship Course 

Department of Business, GIEI 

BUS 390.01 / GSR 230.04 

2021 Spring Semester / 4 Credits 

nstrDetails

Instructor

Course Details

Russ Stein

Day & Time: 4:00 - 5:50 PM, Tuesday/Thursdays

Hybrid Course

SAC 1210

russell.stein@gallaudet.edu

Office Hours: By Appointment via email

Russ’s Bio



Raised in a Deaf family in New York, Russell Stein obtained his Business Management degree from Gallaudet University. After working under Relay America and then the Communication Service for the Deaf, he gained the experience he needed to begin the consulting business. He is also a dynamic speaker giving presentations.​



• Co-Founded Hapa & Stein, Inc (Consulting) in 2007

• Co-Founded ASLWave (Video Relay Service) in 2010

• Co-Founded Mozzeria (Pizzeria) in 2011

• Co-Founded Yantern (Consulting) in 2019



Course Expectations



Course Overview 

This course is a non-traditional introduction to the world of social entrepreneurial thinking that aligns with students' personal interests and aspirations. In this highly interactive and dynamic course, students will be building strategic skills to apply to an actual business from scratch exposing them to all that is required to launch a successful venture. Students will strengthen their knowledge as well as soft skills in the fields of marketing, business formation, finances, negotiation, design thinking, strategic planning, customer discovery, competitive analysis, leadership, and so forth. Several sessions will include guest presenters such as entrepreneurs and community leaders who will be sharing their personal perspectives. 





Course Materials 

Required Readings 

 1. SYOB Start Your Own Business: The Only Startup Book You’ll Ever Need, Jennifer Merritt and Jason Feifer 

       2. Yantern Video Library - Yantern (www.yantern.com)

 3. Talking to Humans, Frank Rimalovski (E-Book)

Other reading materials will be available to download and view on Blackboard and/or the internet. 

Writing Style 

All course papers should follow the American Psychology Association’s format with a reference page at the end. Help with APA style is available online (go to http://www.apastyle.org/apa-style-help.aspx). Please use 1 inch margins, double-spaced, size 12 Times New Roman or Cambria font. 



Late Submission Policy

Deadlines: Assignments are due by the due date/time. Assignments not submitted on time will receive a zero. Graded work is final. No make-ups or extra credit. Strive to do your very best. Early submissions are welcome, with the understanding that the grade given is final. If your early submission is not yet graded, and you submit multiple submissions, the last assignment submitted before the deadline will be graded.



Prerequisites 

Permission of the instructor is required to register for this course. 

Credit Hours 



The total time a student should spend on a college course is calculated by credit hour. One credit hour is roughly 37.5 – 45 hours of student time. This is a 4 credit course so students should expect to spend between 150 to 180 hours on this course over the span of sixteen weeks.

Course Assignments 

Details for assignments & grading rubric(s) are in the Assignments folder on Blackboard. 

Attendance & Participation 

Each day of class is like reporting for a job. It will be worth 50% of your grade (½ for attendance & ½ for participation). The course meets twice a week (except for scheduled breaks and holidays based on the Gallaudet University calendar) through December 13, 2021. You are expected to complete any assigned readings and view videos prior to class. 

● Zoom Recordings 

● Discussion Board: Closes at 11:59 p.m EST. on Sundays. 



Weekly Assignments 

The professor will outline expectations at the beginning of class every week and inform the class how those expectations will align with the topics being discussed in class. This will include homework and any “reflection papers” where students would be expected to provide in-depth analysis and personal 

thoughts of experiences from the classroom as well as guest speakers/webinars Any scheduled assignments are due to Blackboard by 11:59 PM, Sundays. 

Mid-Term: Business Model Canvas and Quiz 

Students will complete BMC to include the concept of how to identify and innovate a solution. Also, will take 20-questions of what was learned in the first 8-week(s) course. 

Final: Presentation 

Students (individual or team) will identify: 

● an organization or business of interest service, or 

● Facilities-related challenges while being a student at Gallaudet University (i.e., dorm, cafeteria, public safety, field house, classrooms, etc.), or 

● Business Model Canvas/ Business Plan

With the choice, the student will identify a challenge that will be solved using the start-up process (i.e., market research, customer discovery, financials, scalability opportunities/challenges, etc).



Course Grading You can follow your course grade in the Grade Center on the Blackboard page. See the Course Assignments above or the Course Schedule below to determine when each assignment is due. 

Course Assignments

Class Attendance                                                                                                                          25%

Class Participation                                                                                                                        25%

Weekly Homework/Assignments incl. Reflection Papers                                                            20%

Midterm (BMC and Quiz)                                                                                                             10%                           

Final                                                                                                                                               20%

Total                                                                                                                                            100%





Grades will be assigned by the following percentage to grade conversion chart: 

A 93% and above 

C 73% to 76.99%

A- 90% to 92.99% 

C- 70% to 72.99%

B+ 87% to 89.99% 

D+ 67% to 69.99%

B 83% to 86.99% 

D 60% to 66.99%

B- 80% to 82.99% 

F 59.99% or below

C+ 77% to 79.99%







Attendance / Participation 

This class will meet in the classroom at SAC 1210 every week on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 4 pm to 5:50 EST. When you miss class, it is your responsibility to check the blackboard and/or get information from a classmate. Please let me know by email in advance if you will miss class. I define participation as being actively engaged in our discussions and activities on Blackboard or in-class breakouts. 



Point System (Attendance)

50/50 (4:00 pm or before)

25/50 (4:01 pm and after)

0/50   (excuse or not)

What to Bring to Class 

You are expected to arrive prepared for class with the following items: notebook, pen, and your engerized-self to be ready to have great discussions. 

Midterm/Final Exam 

The presentation is worth 10%- Midterm and 20%- Final. - no exceptions. There is not a traditional final exam scheduled in this course.





Course Schedule 

(**Disclaimer- reserve the right to change the schedule**)



Week

Day

Topic

Assignments (All assignments due on Sunday night 11:59 pm EST)

Week 1

Tuesday, August 31, 2021







Thursday, September 2. 2021

Review Syllabus/ Blackboard Ultra 





What is YOUR story?

Introductions





ASSIGNMENT: 

ASL Video 

Tell me about you.

Share your career experiences.

Did you have any experiences with “planning”?

What was your role?

What do you want to get out of this class?





Homework: Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI)





Week 2

Tuesday, September 7, 2021



GIEI Introduction video

https://www.facebook.com/794528034213324/videos/2850298208405260













Job Experiences



Social Entrepreneurs: The Story

Identify one of Social Entrepreneur Businesses (Name of organization).

Information of your finding:

Company’s Mission

What is the company’s Value Proposition?

What are their Social Responsibility









Thursday, September 9, 2021





Discussion: Intro to Social Entrepreneurship Social Impact & Responsibility

Bosino Coffee

N.A.D. Start Your Own Business

Mozzeria



MBTI 101

Sparkers Ideas re Deaf Ecosystem and Gallaudet Campus

Value Proposition





Homework: What type of Entrepreneur are You? Quiz

Homework: Value Propositions

Homework: Three Sparkers Ideas





Discussion Board:

Social Entrepreneurs Business(es)

Value Proposition



Week 3

Tuesday, September 14, 2021

Discussion



Job Experiences

Entrepreneurship Results



READ: SYOB Ch. 1-3



One on One Meeting with Russ (Sign up)



Thursday, September 16, 2021

Social Entrepreneurs Business(es)



Planning and Entrepreneur MindSet

Activity: PB & J 



Discussion:

Chapter 1-3

Planning

https://www.yantern.com/free-videos 

Watch: The Impact of Oppression on Black Deaf Owned Business  (Free Sign up)



(One on One meeting with Russ)









Week 4

Tuesday, September 21, 2021

Discuss: The Impact of Oppression on Black Deaf Owned Business Video





Business Model Canvas

Foundations

Communication Approaches

What is Value Proposition

What’s customer segment



Each group decide- Deaf Owned Business or Organization



Read SYOB Ch. 4-7, 10, 16, 29, 31





BMC #1 Project

Work in group (3 to 4)



Thursday, September 23, 2021

Discussion:

Chapter 4-7

Getting to Maybe Ch. 1 + 2



BMC (Work in class- group of 4)

[Questions/Clarification]



Homework: BMC: Deaf-Owned Business





Week 5

Tuesday, September 28, 2021



Networking 101

Chapter 10

Chapter 16

Chapter 29

Chapter 31



SYOB: Business Plan

Chapter 10







READ: SYOB, Ch. 8-9

READ: Getting to Maybe, 1-2



BMC Presentation on Thursday



Thursday, September 30, 2021

Business Structure

Location

Site Operations

Design



Naming Your Business



BMC

Group Presentation



10 minutes MAX

Persuasive Presentation Style

READ: SYOB, Ch. 8-9

Watch: https://www.yantern.com/free-videos (A Founder’s Journey: Inside Look at Black Deaf Owned Business)



BMC Presentation on Tuesday



Assignment (Journal #1)- what you have learned in past 3 weeks

Week 6

Tuesday, October 5, 2021



BMC

Group Presentation



10 minutes MAX

Persuasive Presentation Style



READ: Getting to Maybe Ch 1-2 



Discussion Board:

Social Responsibility Project re Gallaudet



Thursday, October 7, 2021

Discussion

Reflection: BMC

Getting Maybe [Chapter 1 and 2]

Review for Midterm Guidelines



Homework: Final Project “TOPIC” and team members for Midterm Project

Week 7

Tuesday, October 12, 2021

(MIDTERM WEEK)

Midterm:

Business Model Canvas

Quiz (15 questions)

BMC#2 Due end of Week



Thursday, October 14,  2021

(MIDTERM WEEK)

Business Model Canvas

Quiz (15 questions)

Midterm Quiz (Due end of Week)



Week 8



Tuesday, October 19, 2021

Business Operations

Cost Sheet w BMC#2

Review Business Structure LLC 



Funds

Site

Business License

Business Fees

Overhead Cost(s)



LLC University Website

Discussion Board:

            BMC #2: Team/ Individual               Project Proposal 





Thursday, October 21, 2021

Discussion

Getting to Maybe Ch. 3-6

Review Quiz



Guest Speaker:

TBD

Homework: BMC #2:



Discussion: Two things you learned from the Guest Speaker

Week 9



Tuesday, October 26, 2021

Collaboration

Intention

Goal(s)

Tools/Resource(s)

Talking to Humans (65 pages)



Discussion Board:

 Discuss what you learned from this Ebook 



Thursday, October 28, 2021

BMC

Group/Solo Presentation



10 minutes MAX

Persuasive Presentation Style

Homework:

FINAL PROJECT: Value Proposition, Customer Market, Cost Structure of your ValuePropositions

Week 10



Tuesday, November 2, 2021

Services for Deaf Community

Advocate

Resources

Accessibility

Discussion Board: 

Develop 8 questions (Customer Discovery Process)





Thursday, November 4, 2021

     Guest Speaker

TBD

Homework:

Business Structure, Cost Estimate (Spreadsheet)

Interview 6 people using 8 questions

Revised BMC #2 

Thoughts with Guest Speaker

Week 11

Tuesday, November 9, 2021

Profit

Expectations

Break-even

Overhead Cost



Discussion Board: BMC #2:  

       Develop PPT for Thursday in         class



Thursday, November 11, 2021

BMC

Group/Solo Presentation



5 minutes MAX

Persuasive Presentation Style

Present (each group)- up to 5 minutes 

Week 12

Tuesday, November 16, 2021

Innovation

BMC# 3

Finish Business Plan discussion



Solo project (each must come up with new idea/solution/product/service)



Thursday, November 18, 2021

Naming your Business

Guest Speaker- Travis Zornoza 

Overhead Cost vs Profits/Breakeven Cost

Homework: 

Come up with names for your business

     Overhead Cost vs Profits

Week 13

Winter Break

ENJOY YOURSELVES



Week 14

Tuesday, November 30, 2021

Overhead Cost vs Profits discussion







Thursday, December 2, 2021

Discuss PPT

Homework: DRAFT PPT due for Feedback

Week 15

Tuesday, December 7, 2021

Overview of Social Responsibility Entrepreneurs

Getting Maybe: Overview

Global Impact

Deaf- Owned Business





Discussion Board: 

Peers Feedback re Final Project





Thursday, December 9, 2021

Discussion

Draft: Final Presentations



Homework: Submit Final PPT 

Week 16

Tuesday, December 15th,2021

FINAL: Presentation

5 Minutes Video (explainingyour BMC #3 with what you learned from your customer discovery process



Thursday, December 17, 2021

FINAL: Presentations

Due: Evaluations



















POLICIES



Academic Integrity Policy 

Academic integrity grows from the longstanding traditions of the world university community. Academic integrity is defined as a firm adherence to the code or standard of values of the University and the individual professions. Academic freedom is a commitment on the part of students, faculty, staff, and administrators even in the face of adversity, to five fundamental values: honesty, truth, fairness, respect, and responsibility. Commitment to academic honesty encourages the mutual respect and moral integrity that our University community values and nurtures. 

Academic Accommodations Policy 

Gallaudet University has a legal obligation under the American with Disabilities Act (ADA) to provide reasonable accommodations for students with disabilities in addition to being deaf. Students who seek course accommodations, modifications, or substitutions can find guidelines and procedures for obtaining accommodations based on their disabilities on the Office for Students with Disabilities (OSWD) web site, http://www.gallaudet.edu/office_for_students_with_disabilities.html. 

Reporting Responsibilities 

While I want you to feel comfortable coming to me with issues you may be struggling with or concerns you may be having, please be aware that I have some reporting requirements that are part of my job requirements at Gallaudet University. 

For example, if you inform me of an issue of sexual harassment, sexual assault, or discrimination I will keep the information as private as I can, but I am required to bring it to the attention of the Title IX Coordinator or EEO/AA office. If you would like to talk to those offices directly, they can be reached by contacting Sharrell McCaskill through VP (202-559-5683) or at her office in College Hall 312 or at the following website: https://www.gallaudet.edu/title-ix-at-gallaudet-university. 

Additionally, you can also report incidents or complaints to DPS. You can also get support at CAPS (Counseling and Psychological Services), SHS (Student Health Services) and the Ombudsman. Another common example is if you are struggling with an issue that may be traumatic or unusual stress. I will likely inform the campus Behavioral Intervention Team (BIT) or CAPS. If you would like to reach out directly to them for assistance, you can contact them at 

https://www.gallaudet.edu/student-affairs/behavior-intervention-team. Finally, know that I am always willing to listen and give advice if needed. 



Notice of Nondiscrimination

 

For more information on Gallaudet University’s compliance and complaints concerning sexual assault, sexual misconduct, discrimination or harassment, contact the federal compliance officer, Title IX Coordinator and  Title IX Director at 202.759-1734 (VP/Voice) or send email to eop@gallaudet.edu  You are welcome to read more information about Title IX at Title IX – Gallaudet University

 

Title IX Reporting

 

Gallaudet University is committed to fostering a safe, productive learning environment. Title IX and our school policy prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex. Sexual misconduct — including harassment, domestic and dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking — is also prohibited at our school.

Our school encourages anyone experiencing sexual misconduct to talk to someone about what happened, so they can get the support they need, and our school can respond appropriately.

If you wish to speak confidentially about an incident of sexual misconduct, want more information about filing a report, or have questions about school policies and procedures, please contact our Title IX Coordinator, which can be found on our school's website.

 

Our school is legally obligated to investigate reports of sexual misconduct, and therefore it cannot guarantee the confidentiality of a report, but it will consider a request for confidentiality and respect it to the extent possible.

As a teacher, I am also required by our school to report incidents of sexual misconduct and thus cannot guarantee confidentiality. I must provide our Title IX coordinator with relevant details such as the names of those involved in the incident.

Bilingual Commitment

This course and curriculum is bilingual and bimodual, making full use of signed American Sign Language and written English. Each of us in this classroom are bilingual, with varying abilities in both languages. I will do my best to accommodate this range of abilities and provide access, whenever possible, to all essential information in both signed ASL and written English. I will also be designing lessons throughout this semester, using proven methods with the goal of improving our fluency in one or both of our languages and modalities. 



We all have the right to understand one another in my classroom. We also have the right to feel respected and not ashamed. We should all be patient with one another. Also please let me know if you are having trouble with the language or communication in this course.



Multicultural Commitment

For Multicultural statement - please click on this link :  https://www.gallaudet.edu/student-affairs/student-handbook/diversity-statement-and-guidelines/

Religious Observance Policy

 

Although Gallaudet University, as an institution, does not observe religious holidays, it has long been the University’s policy that every reasonable effort should be made to help students avoid negative academic consequences when their religious obligations conflict with academic requirements. Absence from classes or examinations for religious reasons does not relieve students from responsibility for any part of the course work required during the period of absence. Students who expect to miss classes, examinations, or other assignments as a consequence of their religious observance shall be provided with a reasonable alternative opportunity to complete such academic responsibilities. It is the obligation of students to provide faculty with reasonable notice of the dates of religious holidays on which they will be absent. Students who are absent on days of examinations or class assignments shall be offered an opportunity to make up the work, without penalty, unless it can be demonstrated that a make-up opportunity would interfere unreasonably with the delivery of the course. Should disagreement arise over any aspect of this policy, the parties involved should contact the Department Chair.



Name and Pronouns

If you prefer to use a name other than the name the University officially uses, please let me know.  Likewise, if you have a preferred personal pronoun, please let me know. 

University Policies & Important Links

 

FERPA

 

The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) (20 U.S.C. § 1232g; 34 CFR Part99) is a federal law that protects the privacy of a student’s education records. In order for your information to be released, a form must be signed and, in your records, located in the Admissions/Registrar’s Office.

 

Gallaudet – Privacy Policy

Blackboard - Privacy Center; Privacy Statement

Google & YouTube – Privacy & Terms

Microsoft – Privacy Statement

Zoom – Privacy Statement

 

Vendor Accessibility Statements

MyGU – Accessibility Statement

Blackboard – Accessibility Statement

Google & YouTube – Accessibility Statement

Microsoft – Accessibility Statement

Zoom – Accessibility Statement

Tutoring Services

 

Tutorial & Instructional Programs (TIP) at Gallaudet University provides an open and safe learning environment for students who request tutorial assistance. Through bilingual instruction and the use of a variety of academic techniques by qualified tutors, students will learn to develop confidence, maneuver through appropriate resources, and excel at practicing necessary skills which are essential to student retention.

 

TIP provides free tutoring, coaching, and instructional support services for all undergraduate and graduate students at no charge.

https://www.gallaudet.edu/tutorial-and-instructional-programs/

 

Library Support

 

Gallaudet University Library has a vast array of resources, most of which are

online. Live support is also available. To get started, visit Library – Gallaudet University

 

Office for Students with Disabilities

 

Office for Students with Disabilities (OSWD) gives qualified onsite and online students with disabilities the opportunity for success through equal access and the means to participate in curricular and extracurricular activities at Gallaudet University.  For more information, please go to the OSWD website (https://www.gallaudet.edu/office-for-students-with-disabilities)

 

Office of the Ombuds

 

If issues arise related to this course, please contact your instructor. If you would like the assistance of an impartial third-party regarding a course-related issue you may contact the Office of the Ombuds. The Ombuds is available as the confidential and neutral resource to assist with the informal resolution of conflicts and concerns. The office is located at Ely Center, 113. Videophone: 202-559-5079. Email: ombuds@gallaudet.edu Website: Office of the Ombuds – Gallaudet University

 

 Academic Calendar

 

View Gallaudet’s Academic Calendar at: Academic Calendars – Gallaudet University

Student Learning Outcomes

Course Student Learning Outcomes 

Student Learning Outcomes

Learning Opportunities

Assessment Tools

Dept SLO’s

GU SLO’s

Students will examine, analyze, apply, & commend solutions to business issues.

Discussions



Assignments



Presentations

Participation



Assignment Rubrics



Presentation Rubrics

2, 5, 6

1, 2, 3, 4

Students will learn principles and applications of The Business Model Canvas.

Discussions



Assignments



Presentations

Participation



Presentation Rubrics



Assignment Rubrics

1, 2, 4, 5, 6

2, 4

Students will work in both leadership and support roles to achieve a variety business-related tasks, competencies, training, and experiences.

Discussions



Business Implement



Evaluation and Reflection

Participation



Implement Rubrics



Assignment & Writing Rubrics

2, 5, 6

1, 2, 3

Students will consult with businesses to address a real-world issue and propose innovative solutions.

Discussions



Field-work



Presentations

Participation



Assignment Rubrics



Presentation Rubrics

2, 4, 5, 6

1, 4















Business Program SLO’s 

1. Critically examine, analyze, apply, integrate and recommend logical actions based on a variety of business concepts, models and principles in order to address hypothetical or real-world business issues.

2. Communicate effectively in both American Sign Language and written English, using generally accepted and/or innovative business formats to present factual data and analyses, propose strategies, advocate policies, promote products and services, and instruct and evaluate personnel.

3. Apply basic computational, statistical and quantitative reasoning skills in collecting, analyzing, and interpreting numerical information to make and justify evidence-based business decisions.

4. Use computer hardware, software, the internet, cloud computing and other technological tools to expedite and enhance communication and quantitative reasoning skills in making business decisions.

5. Be able to work effectively in both leadership and support roles as part of diverse teams to achieve a variety of business-related tasks, recognizing and maximizing the advantages of different skills, competencies, professional training, experience, and temperament of all team members.

6. Consistently act in a professional, respectful, honest, fair and reasonable manner and to apply ethical principles and logical reasoning to make and justify business decisions.

                       

                      Gallaudet University SLO’s 

Wellness: Recognize how my choices can transform my health, well-being, and ability to thrive; seek support and utilize resources for personal growth; and work collaboratively to promote wellness on campus and within myself.

 

Bilingualism: Use American Sign Language (ASL) and written English to communicate effectively with diverse audiences for a variety of purposes.

 

Career Readiness: Develop career decision-making skills and competencies by engaging in theoretical and experiential learning.

 

Critical Thinking:  Think critically and innovatively, and express myself creatively, making connections within and across disciplines

Digital Awareness: Employ data and technology in effective, competent, fair, accountable, transparent, and responsible (ethical) ways.

Ethics: Formulate reasoned decisions about ethical issues that lead to wise action.

Science Literacy: Evaluate evidence derived from systematic analysis of quantitative and qualitative data to address issues that pertain to the experiences of individuals in societies.

Global Citizenship: Articulate knowledge of intersectional identities within a global society and demonstrate intercultural knowledge, cultural competence, and skills in constructive civic discourse on the local, national, and global levels.