DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS

Business Administration Program Syllabus





							Course Title:  			Global Dimensions of Business

Course Number:  			BUS 361-01

Semester:  				Fall 2021

Number of Credits:  			3

Instructor Name:  			Professor Jeffrey Miller, PhD, JD, LLM

Office Hours:  			Mondays/Wednesdays 12:00pm-4:00pm and by appointment.

Email:  				jeffrey.miller@gallaudet.edu

Office Location:			Edward Miner Gallaudet Memorial Building, Room 201		

Class Days/Time/Location:  	Tuesdays/Thursdays 9:30am – 10:50am

Catalog Description:

This course focuses on the global dimensions of business. It covers a broad spectrum of objects in foreign direct investment and trade, international corporate strategies, international governance and regulation, international patents and protections, and multinational culture. The political, cultural, institutional, economic, legal, and technological environmental forces that accompany global business activities are discussed in an integrated manner.



Pre/Co-requisites: BUS261/GSR220, BUS351, BUS371; Business department majors only, or permission of the instructor/department.

Required Reading and Other Materials:



												Hill, C. (2021) International Business: Competing in the Global Marketplace (13th ed.), McGraw-Hill Education.

												Additional articles and detailed instructions for assignments will be posted on the GU blackboard learning management system. Access blackboard at my.gallaudet.edu, click on key links: quick access column and pick blackboard, enter your GU username and password, and select course to access material. If you require assistance with Blackboard, please contact GTS putting in helpdesk request.

Students should use Blackboard daily because we will rely heavily on Blackboard for managing the course.  Announcements would be posted regularly, including course updates, course material, readings, discussions, online materials, syllabus, examinations, projects, case studies and etc.  Please check your email daily including any announcements from Blackboard.   



Overall Course Objectives:

At the end of the course, you will be able to become familiar with the following:

Understand the concept of globalization and national differences in political, economic, legal systems, culture, ethics, corporate social responsibility, and sustainability.

Understand the global trade and investment environment.

Understand the global monetary system. 

Understand the strategy and structure of international business, including business functions of exporting, importing, countertrade, global production and supply chain management, global marketing, R&D, global human resource management, accounting, and finance. 



Student Learning Outcomes (SLOs):  

Your commitment to this course is required. This means that you should be prepared to attend every class session. If you can come to every class session and commit to working on the assignments, quizzes and exams, project and other tasks, your instructor will make commitment to teach you the tools that can make you successful in management.



Please see the end of the syllabus for a complete chart of SLOs, critical learning opportunities, assessment methods, and alignment with program and university outcomes as well as those required by the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP).



Bison Letter Grade Equivalencies:



The Department of Business grading system is:



93% and Above		A		4.0

90 – 92%			A-		3.7

87 - 89%			B+		3.3

83 - 86%			B		3.0

80 – 82%			B-		2.7

77 – 79%			C+		2.3

73 – 76%			C		2.0

70 – 72%			C-		1.7

67 – 69%			D+		1.3

60 – 66%			D		1.0

Below 60%			F		0.0



Major Assignments and Grading Policy:  



														Summary of grading:	

															Requirement								Percentage of Grade

															Class Participation								10%

															Five Unit Examinations (10% each exam)					50%

															Two Classroom Presentations (10% each)					20%

															Final Examination 								20%

														

													Minimum weekly commitment to this class:  

													In general, the minimum time commitment for readings and assignments outside of class is twice the number of hours spent in class.  This is a 3-credit course, based upon our scheduled three hours of class meetings per week.  Therefore, your minimum time commitment to this course outside of class is six hours.  Putting these together, your total minimum time commitment to this course is nine hours per week.  Keep in mind that this is a guideline -- some of you may be able to do the work completely and correctly in less than nine hours, and some of you need more than nine hours.  I will be grading you on the completeness, correctness and quality of your work, not on the number of hours. 

													Class Participation (10% of Grade):

Class participation is an essential component of learning.  Your participation in class discussion and activities will help you understand and master business law concepts and problem-solving skills.  I expect you to attend in all in-class sessions as well as actively participate in online discussion and activities.  

													Quizzes & Final Exam (70% of Grade):

													The quizzes have two purposes: one is to give you an additional opportunity to learn the material, and the other is to measure your progress in the course. During the semester, you will take five quizzes during class.  Each quiz will test you on the material you have learned at the end of a unit.

													There will be a comprehensive final exam during final exam week, based on the topics covered throughout the semester.  

													Classroom Presentation (20% of Grade):

Each chapter of the textbook begins with an “opening case”. Students will present two “opening cases” during the course of the semester.  Students will sign up in advance for their presentations.

Rubrics: The rubrics for the assessments will be provided on Blackboard.

*BUS361 Final Exam will be on Thursday, December 16, from 8:00am to 10:00am. 

Masking Requirements



The university has a mask policy that utilizes three colors: green, yellow and red. Please click on this link to read about the university’s mask policy: Gallaudet University mask policy. 

Under the current Yellow Mask Policy Status, all faculty and students are required to wear masks indoors, including in face-to-face classes that are held indoors. We have ordered a very large supply of clear masks that fit above the nose and under the chin. It takes some time to get used to them but please follow the mask posted mask status.

  

Mask Etiquette:

As we monitor the Mask Status (Green, Yellow, Red) to determine when and where we must mask-up, there may be certain students, faculty, and/or staff who may wish to mask-up even if they are not required to. This decision might cause stigma/taboo by others which might lead to assumptions that they are not vaccinated, which we know not to be always true. We have students who are vaccinated who prefer to wear masks all the time or are medically unable to be vaccinated so please be sensitive to their position with respect and civility. 



What Will Happen if People Refuse to Wear a Mask:

We expect that most if not all people will respect the indoor mask policy. If a person refuses to wear a mask in class or takes off their mask and does not put it back on, they will be asked to leave the class immediately and meet with their instructor about the incident. The instructor is required to report such incidents to Student Accountability Restorative Practice (SARP) immediately after class with the student’s name and a summary of the incident. SARP will follow up right away with the student. Such incidents may lead to disciplinary action. 



Safety on Campus:

We are back on campus and the university is fully open. Our administration, staff and faculty have worked hard to make our campus as safe as possible. We have required everyone to be vaccinated or to be approved for a waiver (which requires strict mask-wearing requirements indoors and outdoors). We now require everyone, vaccinated or not, to wear masks indoors as part of DC Health requirements and the Yellow Mask Policy Status. Weekly COVID testing is required for all members of our community, and everyone is required to submit a health screening each time they enter our campus. With all of these requirements in place, we are hopeful that we can provide a positive educational experience for our students on campus. In turn, we ask our students to observe safety protocols and to make sensible and healthy decisions for themselves both on and off campus that will protect themselves and others from possible COVID exposure.



There Will be No Virtual Versions of Courses that are Face - to – Face:

We all know how important face-to-face engagement is to our learning mission. We understand  that there are concerns from students about participating in person. Some students have individually approached their faculty or advisors to ask for virtual versions of face-to-face courses. Faculty teaching in person will not make course content for the semester available asynchronously online or to offer hyflex options (where some students attend in person and others join via zoom).



Student Absences for Quarantine and/or Health Reasons:

Students or faculty may become ill during the semester. In these situations, we will follow public health and safety protocols.

Quarantine. A number of students will need to quarantine upon arrival in Washington, DC based on guidelines from the DC Department of Health for unvaccinated or partially vaccinated individuals traveling to the area. Faculty with affected students in their classes,  have been asked to work with them on a short-term basis to allow them to complete coursework while quarantining. Students in this situation should notify their instructors  directly of their circumstances. 

Health absences. Similarly, students may need to miss classes throughout the semester for health reasons. Given that we want any student who is experiencing symptoms of illness to refrain from attending in-person classes, we have asked faculty to be flexible in granting short-term excused absences (i.e., one to two classes). The Office of the Dean of Student Affairs will provide notice of absence for those students who need to take more prolonged absences or undergo quarantine/isolation.  

Faculty will support students who become ill during the semester as normal. Your instructors will share PowerPoints or other in-class materials electronically, allow for extensions on assignments, and ensure that students’ participation grades are not negatively impacted. Students should be expected to make up for any missed work.

Contact Tracing. The university will continue to test and contact trace for anyone who tests positive for COVID-19 within our community and will notify instructors, support staff, and classmates if an individual was in their presence while potentially infectious. If a student, faculty, or staff member learns that an individual with whom they’ve interacted tested positive but does not receive official notification, they should assume that contact tracing has determined that the interaction took place outside that person’s infectious period. Faculty and staff should direct questions to coronavirus@gallaudet.edu and suspected exposure to contact.tracing@gallaudet.edu.

Technical Skills required

Beginning the first week of the term, I will assume that students are well acquainted with the Blackboard environment and have become proficient at the following:

Navigating and using Blackboard

Using email with attachments

Creating and submitting files using MS Word, MS Excel, MS Powerpoint

Downloading and installing software

Using Zoom

Using online libraries and databases to locate and gather appropriate information

Using online search tools for specific academic purposes, including the ability to use search criteria, keywords and filters

Properly citing information sources

By the end of the first week of the term, all students should have resolved all technical issues with the GTS IT Service Desk and be ready to fulfill the requirements of the course.

Navigating the Course:

This course meets twice a week in person (i.e. face-to-face) during the semester. We will mainly be using Blackboard Ultra and email to communicate with each other outside of class. If you are having trouble accessing Blackboard Ultra, please contact the GTS IT Service Desk.  If you have any questions about how to navigate the Blackboard Ultra, please feel free to contact me.


Course Schedule:  

NOTE: This is a provisional schedule.  It is subject to change!




Week

Chapters & Topics Covered

Assignments

W1: Aug 30 – Sept 3

Introduction (Syllabus, etc.)



C1: Globalization

Tuesday, 8/30



Read Chapter 1

Thursday, 9/1



Finish reading Chapter 1

W2: Sept 6 – 10



C2: National Differences in Political, Economic, and Legal Systems

C3: National Differences in Economic Development

Tuesday, 9/7



Read Chapter 2

 

Thursday, 9/9



Read Chapter 3

W3: Sept 13 – 17

C4: Differences in Culture

C5: Ethics, Corporate Social Responsibility, and Sustainability

Tuesday, 9/14



Read Chapter 4



Thursday, 9/16



Read Chapter 5

 

W4: Sept 20 – 24

Quiz #1 Ch. 1-5



C6: International Trade Theory

Tuesday, 9/21



Quiz! Ch. 1-5

Read Chapter 6 



Thursday, 9/23



Finish reading Chapter 6 



W5: Sept 27 – Oct 1



C7: Government Policy and International Trade

C8: Foreign Direct Investment



Tuesday, 9/28



Read Chapter 7



Thursday, 9/30



Read Chapter 8



W6: Oct 4 – 8





C9: Regional Economic Integration

QUIZ #2 Ch. 6-9

CH10: The Foreign Exchange Market

Tuesday, 10/5



Read Chapter 9 



Thursday, 10/7



Quiz! Ch. 6-9

Read Chapter 10







W7: Oct 11 - 15





C11: The International Monetary System



Tuesday, 10/12



Finish reading Chapter 10 



Thursday, 10/14



Read Chapter 11



W8: Oct 18 - 22 





C12: The Global Capital Market

Quiz #3: Ch. 10-12

C13: The Strategy of International

Tuesday, 10/19



Read Chapter 12



Thursday, 10/21



Quiz! Ch. 10-12

Read Chapter 13



W9: Oct 25 - 29





C14: The Organization of International Business



Tuesday 3/26



Finish reading Chapter 13 



Thursday, 9/1



Read Chapter 14 



W10: Nov 1 - 5 

C15: Entry Strategy and Strategic Alliances

Quiz #4: Ch. 13-15



Tuesday, 11/2



Read Chapter 15



Thursday, 11/4



Quiz! Ch. 13-15

Read Chapter 16 



W11: Nov 8 – 12

C16: Exporting, Importing, and Countertrade 

C17: Global Production and Supply Chain Management

Tuesday, 11/9



Finish reading Chapter 16

Thursday, 11/4



Read Chapter 17



W12: Nov 15 – 19

C18: Global Marketing and R&D

C19: Global Human Resource Management

Tuesday, 11/16



Read Chapter 18



Thursday, 11/18



Read Chapter 19

W13: Nov 22 – 26

Thanksgiving Break











W14: Nov 29 – Dec 2



C20: Accounting and Finance in the International Business

Quiz #5: Ch. 16-20.

Tuesday, 11/30



Read Chapter 20



Thursday, 12/2



Quiz! Ch. 16-20

W15: Dec 6 - 10



Review for Final Exam










Class Policies

Late Submission Policy: 

Deadlines: Assignments are due by the due date/time. Assignments not submitted on time will receive a zero. Graded work is final. No make-ups or extra credit. Strive to do your very best. Early submissions are welcome, with the understanding that the grade given is final. If your early submission is not yet graded, and you submit multiple submissions, the last assignment submitted before the deadline will be graded.


Absence Policy:

Missing Classes or Exams Due to Conflict or Emergency:  During in-class activities, we will work together to learn and to synthesize ideas. So, it is essential that you prepare for class, attend class, and be on time. Likewise, you need to take all exams as scheduled.



I recognize that there may be situations which are beyond your control and which make it difficult or impossible for you to come to class. However, exceptions must follow a clear, transparent, and equitable procedure.  There are (1) documented emergencies and (2) official conflicts.

	Documented emergencies are grave circumstances generally limited to emergency room or urgent care clinic appointments for yourself or a dependent child, hospitalization, death in the family, or court subpoena. Routine medical care and appointments are not emergencies because the can usually be scheduled around your commitments. To be excused for a documented emergency, you will need to provide official documentation, such as a doctor’s note or police report. Doctor’s notes must specifically say that you are excused from work/class and provide a date or date range for your excused absence.

	Official conflicts include conflicting professional commitments, athletic events if you are on a team, or academic commitments to other classes such as field trips. Official conflicts do not include routine appointments with academic advisors, other instructors, or the Registrar’s office, because you also should have scheduled them for a time that did not conflict with your commitments. To be excused for an official conflict, you need to provide official documentation ahead of time.

In either case, it is your responsibility to contact me. Do not wait for me to contact you.  We need to document any special agreements that you and I make in writing, for our protection (e-mail suffices). I will gladly e-mail you a description of our agreement.

Class Communication Policy: Signing & Cell Phones:

E-mail addresses. I will only reply to e-mails from @gallaudet.edu addresses.  All information will be sent to your Gallaudet e-mail account (direct e-mails or via Blackboard).  You are expected to check your Gallaudet e-mail account on a regular basis.  



We will follow the University Communication Policy: each of us has the right and responsibility to understand each other. We will use and respect ASL and respect that we have varying signing styles. We will do whatever is necessary to communicate clearly—and we will be patient and flexible. Please let me know if you are having trouble with communication (understanding the material, understanding me or other students in class).  Please ask immediately if you do not understand me. I appreciate directness. Let’s resolve misunderstandings immediately. Please do not let frustrations build up.



Please do your part to engage in class. This means no texting, no off-task chatting, being respectful when of your classmates when they contribute to a discussion. 



Department of Business Code of Conduct: 

The Department of Business has developed a Code of Conduct to clarify the responsibility, respect and integrity we expect from you inside and outside the classroom.  This is posted to the Blackboard/Syllabus site for the class.  



Gallaudet University Academic Integrity Policy: 

Do not plagiarize in this or any other Gallaudet University class.  If you see a good idea and use it in a paper, presentation, or even a comment in class, add the author’s name before or after your comment.  This goes for when you exactly quote something or even when you just mention an idea from the author. All students must comply with the Gallaudet University Academic Integrity Policy. Using other people’s work as your own or using the same work for another class for this one is dishonest and only cheating yourself out of a good education. It is your responsibility to understand and follow this policy. The official policy can be found at

http://www.gallaudet.edu/academic-catalog/registration-and-policies/undergraduate-policies/academic-integrity.html



Gallaudet Undergraduate Academic Calendar:

It is the student’s responsibility to familiarize themselves with Gallaudet University’s Academic Calendar with respect to when classes meet and holidays are.  The Academic Calendar can be found at the Gallaudet University website at http://www.gallaudet.edu/registrars-office/academic-calendars.html



OSWD Academic Accommodation Policy: 

Students who require accommodations need to register with the Office for Students with Disabilities (OSWD) in order to have their status certified and recorded. OSWD will contact the instructors to arrange for accommodation, but only after certification has been determined. No accommodation can be provided prior to authorization by OSWD. For more information about OSWD policy, go to http://www.gallaudet.edu/academic-catalog/registration-and-policies/undergraduate-policies/academic-accommodations-policy.html



ADA Compliance: 

For information on your rights under the ADA and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation ACT, please see https://www.gallaudet.edu/af/section-1-general/110-reasonable-accommodation.html



Class Cancellation or University Closing:

If the university closes for any reason or the instructor unexpectedly miss class, that day’s work will be conducted via Blackboard. Check the announcement section of Blackboard for specific instructions, which will be posted by class time if at all possible.



											Use of Gallaudet Blackboard Learning Management System: 

											All course information and records are managed by the Blackboard Learning Management System. This includes recording grades and posting announcements, homework, PowerPoint for each chapter covered, and other curricular materials. Blackboard will also be used to send course related e-mails. Therefore, regularly check your Gallaudet email or auto-forward your Gallaudet email to your preferred email account so that you receive all course communication promptly. 

											

Statement Regarding Possibility of Syllabus and/or Schedule Change:  

Topics shown in this syllabus may from time to time be taught in a different sequence, new topics may be added, and other topics may be adjusted, particularly when we have the opportunity for guest speakers and field experiences.  This will ensure the relevance of the course and enhance your learning.  Please be prepared to be flexible and adjust as this class evolves.  All notifications of changes will be done through Blackboard announcements and emails.



Participation Protocol: 

Please plan to participate regularly. You will note in the grading scale that your participation counts towards your final grade. 

Netiquette: When corresponding with your instructor and classmates through email or on the discussion boards, please use proper grammar and a positive tone. Please avoid "netspeak" like "u," "r," "omg," and "lol." Please also refrain from using all CAPITAL LETTERS, as this is often interpreted as shouting. Treat your instructor and fellow students with respect at all times, and in all communications. To learn more about Netiquette, please read this explanation: Core Rules of Netiquette

Bilingual Commitment:

This course and curriculum is bilingual and bimodal, making full use of signed American Sign Language and written English. Each of us in this classroom are bilingual, with varying abilities in both languages. I will do my best to accommodate this range of abilities and provide access, whenever possible, to all essential information in both signed ASL and written English. I will also be designing lessons throughout this semester, using proven methods with the goal of improving our fluency in one or both of our languages and modalities. 



We all have the right to understand one another in my classroom. We also have the right to feel respected and not ashamed. We should all be patient with one another. Also please let me know if you are having trouble with the language or communication in this course.

Writing Style:

APA, MLA, and Chicago are all acceptable writing styles in this class. What is most important is that you cite the same way consistently and that the reader is able to retrieve the cited information easily.

 

Multicultural Curriculum Statement:

 I consider the diversity that students bring to this class to be a resource, strength, and benefit. I plan to present materials and activities that are respectful of diversity: gender, sexuality, disability, age, socioeconomic status, ethnicity, race, and culture. I encourage you to contact me with suggestions to improve the effectiveness of the course for you personally or for other students or student groups.

Course Evaluation: 

 When prompted, students in this course are encouraged to evaluate course content, delivery and materials. 

Student Support & Resources

Navigate:

Navigate is a Student Success mobile app that helps you navigate roadblocks to graduation and

make better choices along the way through interactive checklists, reminders, and alerts. Once you access Navigate, log-in using your University ID and password. Faculty and professional staff such as tutors and your advisors will be able to interact with you including scheduling appointments through your Navigate to ensure your success.



Technology Support:

 Often technology issues require more knowledge than I have. If there are questions or issues with technology, please contact Gallaudet University ITS Service Desk for assistance at https://gallaudet.service-now.com/servicedesk

 

If you have difficulty setting up your username or logging in, please contact Gallaudet IT Service Desk at or call 202-250-2314 (VP) or 202-651-5044 (Voice).  You may also email questions to the IT Service Desk at itservicedesk@gallaudet.edu.  Provide your full legal name, student ID # in your email.

Technology Acceptable Use Policy:

To protect students, faculty, staff and other members of the Gallaudet community, Gallaudet Technology Services prohibits five types of activities:

Activities that comprise or threaten the functioning of the University’s network, database systems, telecommunication systems, or security measures.

Activities that constitute misuse or inappropriate use of Gallaudet University technology resources.

Activities that constitute illegal activity on Gallaudet University technology resources.

Activities that conflict with University policies and procedures or local, state, federal, or international law.

Sharing or giving your password to other users.



For more information, please go to the Acceptable Use Policy  (https://www.gallaudet.edu/gallaudet-technology-services/technology-policy/prohibited-activities)

Tutoring Services:

Tutorial & Instructional Programs (TIP) at Gallaudet University provides an open and safe learning environment for students who request tutorial assistance. Through bilingual instruction and the use of a variety of academic techniques by qualified tutors, students will learn to develop confidence, maneuver through appropriate resources, and excel at practicing necessary skills which are essential to student retention.



TIP provides free tutoring, coaching, and instructional support services for all undergraduate and graduate students at no charge.

https://www.gallaudet.edu/tutorial-and-instructional-programs/



Library Support:

Gallaudet University Library has a vast array of resources, most of which are online. Live support is also available. To get started, visit http://www.gallaudet.edu/library.html

University Policies & Important Links

Academic Calendar:

View Galladet’s Academic Calendar at: https://www.gallaudet.edu/registrar/academic-calendars/

Academic Accommodations Policy:

 Gallaudet University has a legal obligation under the American with Disabilities Act (ADA) to provide reasonable accommodations for students with disabilities in addition to being deaf.  Students who seek course accommodations, modifications, or substitutions can find guidelines and procedures for obtaining accommodations based on their disabilities on the Office for Students with Disabilities (OSWD) web site, https://www.gallaudet.edu/office-for-students-with-disabilities/

 

Academic Integrity Policy:

This course adheres to the Gallaudet University Undergraduate Academic Integrity Policy, which can be found on the Gallaudet University website at https://gallaudet.smartcatalogiq.com/2020-2021/Undergraduate-Catalog/Registration-and-Policies/Undergraduate-Policies/Undergraduate-Academic-Integrity-Policy 

 

Notice of Nondiscrimination:

 For more information on Gallaudet University’s compliance and complaints concerning sexual assault, sexual misconduct, discrimination or harassment, contact the federal compliance officer, Title IX Coordinator and  Title IX Director at 202.759-1734 (VP/Voice) or send email to eop@gallaudet.edu  You are welcome to read more information about Title IX at https://www.gallaudet.edu/title-ix

 

Title IX Reporting:

Gallaudet University is committed to fostering a safe, productive learning environment. Title IX and our school policy prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex. Sexual misconduct — including harassment, domestic and dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking — is also prohibited at our school.

Our school encourages anyone experiencing sexual misconduct to talk to someone about what happened, so they can get the support they need and our school can respond appropriately.

If you wish to speak confidentially about an incident of sexual misconduct, want more information about filing a report, or have questions about school policies and procedures, please contact our Title IX Coordinator, which can be found on our school's website.



Our school is legally obligated to investigate reports of sexual misconduct, and therefore it cannot guarantee the confidentiality of a report, but it will consider a request for confidentiality and respect it to the extent possible.



As a teacher, I am also required by our school to report incidents of sexual misconduct and thus cannot guarantee confidentiality. I must provide our Title IX coordinator with relevant details such as the names of those involved in the incident.

Religious Observance Policy:

Although Gallaudet University, as an institution, does not observe religious holidays, it has long been the University’s policy that every reasonable effort should be made to help students avoid negative academic consequences when their religious obligations conflict with academic requirements. Absence from classes or examinations for religious reasons does not relieve students from responsibility for any part of the course work required during the period of absence. Students who expect to miss classes, examinations, or other assignments as a consequence of their religious observance shall be provided with a reasonable alternative opportunity to complete such academic responsibilities. It is the obligation of students to provide faculty with reasonable notice of the dates of religious holidays on which they will be absent. Students who are absent on days of examinations or class assignments shall be offered an opportunity to make up the work, without penalty, unless it can be demonstrated that a make-up opportunity would interfere unreasonably with the delivery of the course. Should disagreement arise over any aspect of this policy, the parties involved should contact the Department Chair/ Program Chair, the Dean of the School, or the Ombuds. Final appeals will be resolved by the Provost.

Privacy Policy:

FERPA

The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) (20 U.S.C. § 1232g; 34 CFR Part99) is a Federal law that protects the privacy of a student’s education records. In order for your information to be released, a form must be signed and in your records located in the Admissions/Registrar’s Office.

Gallaudet – Privacy Policy

Blackboard - Privacy Center; Privacy Statement

Google & Youtube – Privacy & Terms

Microsoft – Privacy Statement

Zoom – Privacy Statement


Student Learning Outcomes (SLOs) and Assessment of Learning: 

This chart shows the primary learning outcomes for this course, the learning opportunities for developing those outcomes, and the tools used to assess those outcomes.  It also shows how the course outcomes align with the outcomes of the Business Administration program and of the university.



BUS 361

Student Learning Outcomes

Critical Learning Opportunities

Tools for Assessment and Expected Levels

Business Administration Program SLOs

GU SLOs

Understand and apply business vocabulary, concepts and theories in the major functions of Global Business

Quizzes and Examinations



Class Discussions



Individual Project







Quizzes and Exams with average score of 73 or above



Class Participation Grade-weighting criteria with an average evaluation of B or better. 



Checklists adapted for each writing assignment, with an average evaluation of satisfactory or better



AAC&U writing rubric score of emerging or better



Gallaudet ASL presentation rubric score of emerging or better



1. Business Concepts

Critical Thinking



Analyze arguments, identifying reasons, conclusions, assumptions, and logical relations. 



Evaluate arguments and evidence, judging the quality of the reasoning and information, and raising specific objections. 

Find and integrate multiple resources, across multiple disciplines, to address problems and questions. 

Provide compelling reasons in support of opinions, avoiding common argument flaws and thoughtfully responding to objections. 

Solve problems logically and innovatively.

Develop global communication skills in written English and in ASL and apply to specific business formats (summary, reflection & analysis, memo, presentation)





Class Discussions



Individual Project







Class Participation Grade-weighting criteria with an average evaluation of B or better. 



Checklists adapted for each writing assignment, with an average evaluation of satisfactory or better



AAC&U writing rubric score of emerging or better



Gallaudet ASL presentation rubric score of emerging or better



2. Communication

Bilingual

 

Demonstrate competence in ASL and written English discourses



Demonstrate competence in composition in both ASL and written English



Demonstrate competence in comprehending and accurately summarizing material presented in ASL or written English.





Demonstrate and communicate creative approaches to problem solving and substantial knowledge of at least one tool used in global decision-making. Moreover, the students will demonstrate an understanding of emerging trends and technological advances in global organizations and assessing their impact on the global marketplace in the future. 













Class Discussions



Individual Project





Class Participation Grade-weighting criteria with an average evaluation of B or better. 



Checklists adapted for each writing assignment, with an average evaluation of satisfactory or better



AAC&U writing rubric score of emerging or better



Gallaudet ASL presentation rubric score of emerging or better



2. Communication



3. Quantitative Reasoning



4. Technological Skills





Critical Thinking



Analyze arguments, identifying reasons, conclusions, assumptions, and logical relations. 



Evaluate arguments and evidence, judging the quality of the reasoning and information, and raising specific objections. 

Find and integrate multiple resources, across multiple disciplines, to address problems and questions. 

Provide compelling reasons in support of opinions, avoiding common argument flaws and thoughtfully responding to objections. 

Solve problems logically and innovatively.

												Demonstrate an understanding of self in the global business world and be able to compare and contrast the perspectives of diverse cultures. 

												Demonstrate an understanding of how differences in values, beliefs, and priorities can lead to different business decision-making and backing them up with informed ethical judgments. 

												In addition, students will understand the value of collaboration, effectiveness, and build leadership skills through team related activities and projects. 

												Last but not the least, students will demonstrate intellectual honesty, professionalism and integrity and operate with civility inside and outside the classroom.

Class Discussions 



Individual Project





Class Participation Grade-weighting criteria with an average evaluation of B or better. 



Immediate feedback from instructors about success and areas for additional consideration



Checklists adapted for each writing assignment, with an average evaluation of satisfactory or better



AAC&U writing rubric score of emerging or better



Gallaudet ASL presentation rubric score of emerging or better







1. Business Concepts



2. Communication



5. Teamwork



6. Ethics

Global Citizenship



Compare the practices, languages, formative events, artistic and literary traditions of one’s own and various other cultures. 



Describe how privileged and oppressed social identities intersect to influence an individual’s experiences. 

Demonstrate the ability to accurately situate oneself within the local, national, and global landscape, recognizing their own and others’ positionalities.

Ethics



Recognize ethical issues in complex contexts, clarifying how various issues relate to each other. 



Articulate multiple points of view on questions of ethics and values. 

Use ethical concepts and theories to evaluate actions and debate controversial social issues.









Business Administration Program

Student Learning Outcomes



Students will



(Business Concepts)  Critically examine, analyze, apply, integrate and recommend logical actions based on a variety of business concepts, models and principles in order to address hypothetical or real-world business issues.



(Communication) Communicate effectively in both American Sign Language and written English, using generally-accepted and/or innovative business formats to present factual data and analyses, propose strategies, advocate policies, promote products and services, and instruct and evaluate personnel.



(Quantitative Reasoning) Apply basic computational, statistical and quantitative reasoning skills in collecting, analyzing, and interpreting numerical information to make and justify evidence-based business decisions.  



(Technological Skills)  Use computer hardware, software, the internet, cloud computing and other technological tools to expedite and enhance communication and quantitative reasoning skills in making business decisions.



(Teamwork) Be able to work effectively in both leadership and support roles as part of diverse teams to achieve a variety of business-related tasks, recognizing and maximizing the advantages of different skills, competencies, professional training, experience, and temperament of all team members.



(Ethics)   Consistently act in a professional, respectful, honest, fair and reasonable manner and to apply ethical principles and logical reasoning to make and justify business decisions.  





Gallaudet University

Student Learning Outcomes



The Gallaudet University Student Learning Outcomes can be found through the following link:



http://www.gallaudet.edu/catalog/undergrad_education/learning_outcomes.html



Page 2 of 2