DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS

Business Administration Program Syllabus





							Course Title:  			Senior Capstone I

Course Number:  		BUS 491-01

Semester:  			Fall, 2021

Number of Credit Hours:  	3.0

Instructor Name:  		Professor Qi Wang, PhD

Office Hours:  	MW: 11am-3pm; T: 10am-3pm
Other times by appt via VP @ (202) 540-8534, or 
ZOOM at https://gallaudet.zoom.us/j/3108405425

Email:  	qi.wang@gallaudet.edu 

Office Location:  		Edward Miner Gallaudet Memorial Building EMG 207

Class Days/Time/Location:  	Monday & Wednesday: 8:30 am to 9:50 am; EMG B02 



Catalog Description:

This course, the first of the two-course Senior Capstone sequence, serves to review and reinforce all business functional knowledge in the areas of marketing, finance, accounting, operations/production management, human resources management, organizational behavior, ethics, legal business environment, macro- and micro-economics, global dimensions of business, information management systems, quantitative research techniques and statistics, business leadership, integration, and strategic management. The class will use a hybrid instructional platform which utilizes both online self-paced eLearning and onsite lectures and discussions.

Prerequisites: BUS 331, BUS 341, BUS 351, BUS 361, BUS 371, BUS 381, BUS 391; Business department majors only, or permission of the department.

Required Course Materials:

Peregrine Academic Level Courses (ALC) Bundle—Business Functional Knowledge Fundamentals

Learning Modules included in the bundle are:

Accounting

Business Ethics

Business Finance

Business Leadership

Global Dimensions of Business

Human Resource Management

Information Management Systems

Macroeconomics

Microeconomics

Marketing

Operations/Production Management

Organizational Behavior

Quantitative Analysis and Statistics

Strategy Management and Business Integration

The Legal Environment of Business



Blackboard and Peregrine ALC Portal Usage:

	Students are responsible for checking Blackboard (Bb) and ALC course portal for updates.  

	Bb course portal hosts course announcements, documents, syllabus, gradesheet template, instructions, contact information, etc. 

	Peregrine ALC course portal hosts all learning materials, pre-tests, and post-test. Please follow the weekly schedule for assignments/tests due dates. Keep in mind, ALL POST-TEST must be taken during class time and be proctored. During the days when POST-TESTS are scheduled, class attendance is mandatory!



REQUIREMENTS AND GRADING

Bison Letter Grade Equivalencies:



93% and Above			A		4.0

90 – 92%			A-		3.7

87 - 89%			B+		3.3

83 - 86%			B		3.0

80 – 82%			B-		2.7

77 – 79%			C+		2.3

73 – 76%			C		2.0

70 – 72%			C-		1.7

67 – 69%			D+		1.3

60 – 66%			D		1.0

Below 60%			F		0.0



Major Assignments and Grading Policy:  

Requirement 						Percentage of Grade

Professional Behaviors (Code of Conduct)			5%

ALC Module Post-Tests (15)					65%

Peregrine Business COMP Exam (Senior Outbound Exam)	15%

ETS Major Field Achievement Test (MFT) in Business		15%



Professional Behaviors—Abidance by DOB Student Code of Conduct (5% of Grade):

At the first day of class, students will review and sign the DOB Student Code of Conduct. Your signature on the form signifies your complete acceptance of the Code and willingness to abide by it.  Throughout the semester, your conduct in and outside the classroom will be measured against the Code to ensure compliance. Keep a copy of your signed form so you can constantly review the Code and act accordingly.



Senior Exit Assessment—Peregrine and MFAT Exams (15% for each exam):

	Peregrine Business COMP Exam is scheduled on December 13. This exam is a direct measure required by ACBSP, our program accrediting body, to assess senior student mastery of the core business functional knowledge in accounting, economics, marketing, finance, ethics, etc. Your score from this outbound exam will be compared with your score in the inbound exam when you took it in BUS101 to measure your learning gains. Please download the exam information pamphlet from Bb course portal to prepare for this 2-hour exam. 

												Another external exam required by ACBSP is the Major Field Test (MFT) in Business, a national examination of undergraduate core business skills developed by Educational Testing Service (ETS). The MFT covers all the major business disciplines, including, but not limited to, management, information systems, marketing, accounting, finance, economics, statistics, and ethics. This 2-hour exam is scheduled on December 15 during the final period. Information about this exam is also available on the Bb course portal.



Course Theme: Review-Study-Demonstrate Mastery in Business Common Professional Knowledge

BUS491 is one of the major components in BUS, ACC, and RMI program assessment mandated by Gallaudet University, DOB, our program accreditation body--ACBSP (Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs, https://www.acbsp.org/), employers, and other stakeholders, such as students and their parents and VRs. For quality assurance and accountability, DOB is required to post our graduating seniors’ learning outcomes in aggregate on our website for the public to view. So, BUS491 is a mission critical course for the department as well as our students. After all, aren’t you eager to know how much you have mastered after years of studying and toiling in your chosen major of study?



Course Procedures:

Take Pre-test for each ALC to determine your current level in the content knowledge of the module, review and study the module materials at your own pace with instructor support. (Meaning you can seek instructor help during class time, office hours, or email; but you do not have to attend class to conduct your review and study.)

Take Post-test for each ALC in class as all Post-tests are proctored. (Meaning when the Post-tests are schedule, class attendance are mandatory.)

Each Pre-test has 20 questions. You do not need to review or study for Pre-tests.

Each Post-test has 20 questions (different from those in a Pre-test) and 3 minutes maximum is allowed for each question. If the time limit is reached, the computer will automatically advance you to the next question. You cannot navigate back to a previous question. If you are an OSWD client and need double-time, inform me promptly so arrangement can be made with Peregrine for such an accommodation.

Passing a module (ALC) requires a minimum score of 75% (the standard for passing a module is 75%-85%, any score below 75% is an indication of not reaching the expected competency).

Each Post-test has a limit of two attempts. If you fail both attempts, you must purchase the individual module at $44 each and retake it. Instructions for purchasing a retake are posted in the Bb portal inside Course Documents folder.

You must pass each Post-test before moving on to a new module. To pass the course, you must at least pass all 15 Post-tests.

You must pass BUS491—Senior Capstone I before proceeding to BUS492—Senior Capstone II.



Gradesheet maintenance requirement: Students are required to input their assignment scores into the instructor provided gradesheet file. The final grade is automatically calculated after each score input. In this way, students will always know where they stand in their learning progress and adjust their effort in the coursework accordingly. 



Additional Resource Persons:

DOB is committed to supporting our seniors for academic excellence. In addition to my assistance, below faculty will provide their expertise in business functional areas when you need extra help.

Emilia Chukwuma, Makur Aciek, Yauheni Koraneu—Accounting, Quantitative Analysis 

Jeff Miller—the Legal Environment of Business, Global Dimensions of Business

Hollie Barbara Stock—Business Ethics

Mary Dakim—Macroeconomics and Microeconomic

Hollie Fallstone—, Organizational Behavior, Business Leadership, Human Resource Management

Lawrance Musa—Quantitative Analysis and Statistics, Operations/Production Management

Qi Wang—Information Management Systems, Strategy Management and Business Integration

Michael Janger—Marketing

Fouad Moussa—Business Finance

														COURSE SCHEDULE





Class Policies:  

Masking Requirements

The university has a mask policy that utilizes three colors: green, yellow and red. Please click on this link to read about the university’s mask policy: Gallaudet University mask policy. 

Under the current Yellow Mask Policy Status, all faculty and students are required to wear masks indoors, including in face-to-face classes that are held indoors. We have ordered a very large supply of clear masks that fit above the nose and under the chin. It takes some time to get used to them but please follow the mask posted mask status.

What Will Happen if People Refuse to Wear a Mask

We expect that most if not all people will respect the indoor mask policy. If a person refuses to wear a mask in class or takes off their mask and does not put it back on, they will be asked to leave the class immediately and meet with their instructor about the incident. The instructor is required to report such incidents to Student Accountability Restorative Practice (SARP) immediately after class with the student’s name and a summary of the incident. SARP will follow up right away with the student. Such incidents may lead to disciplinary action.

Safety on Campus

We are back on campus and the university is fully open. Our administration, staff and faculty have worked hard to make our campus as safe as possible. We have required everyone to be vaccinated or to be approved for a waiver (which requires strict mask-wearing requirements indoors and outdoors). We now require everyone, vaccinated or not, to wear masks indoors as part of DC Health requirements and the Yellow Mask Policy Status. Weekly COVID testing is required for all members of our community, and everyone is required to submit a health screening each time they enter our campus. With all these requirements in place, we are hopeful that we can provide a positive educational experience for our students on campus. In turn, we ask our students to observe safety protocols and to make sensible and healthy decisions for themselves both on and off campus that will protect themselves and others from possible COVID exposure.

There Will be No Virtual Versions of Courses that are Face - to - Face

We all know how important face-to-face engagement is to our learning mission. We understand that there are concerns from students about participating in person. Some students have individually approached their faculty or advisors to ask for virtual versions of face-to-face courses. Faculty teaching in person will not make course content for the semester available asynchronously online or to offer hyflex options (where some students attend in person and others join via zoom).

Student Absences for Quarantine and/or Health Reasons

Students or faculty may become ill during the semester. In these situations, we will follow public health and safety protocols.

Quarantine. A number of students will need to quarantine upon arrival in Washington, DC based on guidelines from the DC Department of Health for unvaccinated or partially vaccinated individuals traveling to the area. Faculty with affected students in their classes, have been asked to work with them on a short-term basis to allow them to complete coursework while quarantining. Students in this situation should notify their instructors directly of their circumstances.

Health absences. Similarly, students may need to miss classes throughout the semester for health reasons. Given that we want any student who is experiencing symptoms of illness to refrain from attending in-person classes, we have asked faculty to be flexible in granting short-term excused absences (i.e., one to two classes). The Office of the Dean of Student Affairs will provide notice of absence for those students who need to take more prolonged absences or undergo quarantine/isolation. Faculty will support students who become ill during the semester as normal. Your instructors will share PowerPoints or other in-class materials electronically, allow for extensions on assignments, and ensure that students’ participation grades are not negatively impacted. Students should be expected to make up for any missed work.

Contact Tracing. The university will continue to test and contact trace for anyone who tests positive for COVID-19 within our community and will notify instructors, support staff, and classmates if an individual was in their presence while potentially infectious. If a student, faculty, or staff member learns that an individual with whom they’ve interacted tested positive but does not receive official notification, they should assume that contact tracing has determined that the interaction took place outside that person’s infectious period. Faculty and staff should direct questions to coronavirus@gallaudet.edu and suspected exposure to contact.tracing@gallaudet.edu.

Gallaudet University Academic Integrity Policy: 

It is the student’s responsibility to familiarize themselves and comply with the Gallaudet University Undergraduate Academic Integrity Policy, which can be found in the Gallaudet University Undergraduate Catalog or on the Gallaudet University website at http://www.gallaudet.edu/academic-catalog/registration-and-policies/undergraduate-policies/academic-integrity.html. Please read the policy in its entirety and comply.  Any violations of academic integrity, such as cheating, plagiarism, fabrication, will result in serious consequences including but not limited to F grade for the assignment or the course, XF grade for the course, suspension from the program or the university.



Gallaudet Undergraduate Academic Calendar

It is the student’s responsibility to familiarize themselves with Gallaudet University’s Academic Calendar with respect to when classes meet, and holidays are.  The Academic Calendar can be found at the Gallaudet University website at https://www.gallaudet.edu/registrar/academic-calendars/undergraduate-academic-calendar.



OSWD Academic Accommodation Policy: 

Students who require accommodations need to register with the Office for Students with Disabilities (OSWD) located in SAC 1022 in order to have their status certified and recorded. OSWD will contact the instructors to arrange for accommodation, but only after certification has been determined. No accommodation can be provided prior to authorization by OSWD. For more information about OSWD policy, go to http://www.gallaudet.edu/academic-catalog/registration-and-policies/undergraduate-policies/academic-accommodations-policy.html



ADA Compliance 

For information on your rights under the ADA and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation ACT, please see https://www.gallaudet.edu/af/section-1-general/110-reasonable-accommodation.html



The Ombuds Support:

												If issues arise related to this course, please contact me (Qi.Wang@gallaudet.edu). If you would like the assistance of an impartial third-party regarding a course-related issue you may contact the Office of the Ombuds. The Ombuds is available as a confidential and neutral resource to assist with the informal resolution of conflicts and concerns. The Office is located at Ely Center 113. Videophone:202.559.5079. E-mail:ombuds@gallaudet.edu. Website: www.gallaudet.edu/ombuds

												

Class Cancellation or University Closing:

If the university closes for any reason or the instructor unexpectedly miss class, that day’s work will be conducted via Blackboard. Check the announcement section of Blackboard for specific instructions, which will be posted by class time if possible.



Credit Hour Compliance:

This course earns 3 credits; therefore, students will spend 150 minutes in class per week for 15 weeks, resulting in 37.5 hours of instructional time for the semester. Students are expected to spend at least 5 hours per week for a total of 75 hours on outside-of-class preparation (e.g., readings, assignments). These two sums should result in total student engagement time of 112.5 hours for the course. Note that these time allotments are minimums, not maximums.



Statement Regarding Possibility of Syllabus and/or Schedule Change:  

At times, topics shown in this syllabus may be taught in a different sequence, new topics added, and others adjusted. This will ensure the relevancy of the course and enhance your learning.  Please be prepared to be flexible and adjust as this class evolves. All notifications of changes will be done through Blackboard announcements and emails.

Reporting Responsibilities: While I want you to feel comfortable coming to me with issues you may be struggling with or concerns you may be having, please be aware that I have some reporting requirements that are part of my job requirements at Gallaudet University. For example, if you inform me of an issue of sexual harassment, sexual assault, or discrimination I will keep the information as private as I can, but I am required to bring it to the attention of the Title IX Coordinator or EEO/AA office. If you would like to talk to those offices directly, they can be reached by contacting Sharrell McCaskill through VP (202-559-5683) or at her office in College Hall 312 or at the following website: https://www.gallaudet.edu/title-ix-at-gallaudet-university. Additionally, you can also report incidents or complaints to DPS. You can also get support at CAPS (Counseling and Psychological Services), SHS (Student Health Services) and the Ombudsman. Business Law II Syllabus Page 7 of 9 Fall Semester 2020 Another common example is if you are struggling with an issue that may be traumatic or unusual stress. I will likely inform the campus Behavioral Intervention Team (BIT) or CAPS. If you would like to reach out directly to them for assistance, you can contact them at https://www.gallaudet.edu/student-affairs/behavior-intervention-team. Finally, know that I am always willing to listen and give advice if needed.



STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES (SLOs)

Please see the end of the syllabus for a complete chart of SLOs, critical learning opportunities, assessment methods, and alignment with program and university outcomes as well as those required by the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP).



Student Learning Outcomes (SLOs) and Assessment of Learning: 

This chart shows the primary learning outcomes for this course, the learning opportunities for developing those outcomes, and the tools used to assess those outcomes.  It also shows how the course outcomes align with the outcomes of the Business Administration program and of the university.

BUS 491

Student Learning Outcomes

Critical Learning Opportunities

Tools for Assessment and Expected Levels

Business Administration Program SLOs

GU ISLOs

Demonstrate competency (mastery) in applying business functional knowledge and solving business problems.

15 ALC Modules



Peregrine Outbound Exam in Business



ETS MFT in Business 



Module Pre-tests & Post-tests



At least score 75% on each of the 15 Module Post-tests



At least score 60 out of 100 on each subject on the Peregrine Outbound Exam



At least achieve 150 mean score on MFT in Business (MFT mean score range 120-200)



1. Common Business Knowledge & Inquiry



3. Quantitative Reasoning & Technological Skills



4. Critical Thinking & Problem Solving



5. Global Dimension



6. Ethics & Social Responsibility



3. Critical Thinking (a, b, c, d, e)



4. Digital Awareness (a, b, d)



5. Ethics (a, b, c, d)



7. Science Literacy (e, g)



8. Global Citizenship (a, b, d)





Demonstrate competency in business communication skills in written English and in ASL 





Class discussions



F2F meeting communication



Email communication



AAC&U writing rubric score of at least Milestone 3



Gallaudet ASL presentation rubric score of at least Milestone 3



2. Communication

2. Bilingualism (b, c, d, e)



Consistently act in a professional, ethical, and socially responsible manner.







Classroom behavior 



Interaction with peers, instructors, and staff



Communication demeanor



DOB Student Code of Conduct



Instructor observation



2. Communication



6. Ethics & social responsibility



2. Bilingualism (b, c, d, e)



5. Ethics (a, b, e)



		

DOB Student Learning Outcomes

Graduates of BS in Business Administration, Accounting, and RMI Programs will demonstrate competence and learning outcomes in the following six common domains: 

	Accurately apply fundamental business concepts, models and principles to address hypothetical or real-world business issues. (Common Business Knowledge & Inquiry)

	Communicate effectively in both American Sign Language and written English in various formats and styles to a variety of audiences in multiple business contexts. (Communication)

	Apply technological tools, and statistical and quantitative reasoning skills in analyzing and evaluating numerical information to support evidence-based business decisions. (Quantitative Reasoning & Technological Skills)

	Critically assess business problems and develop well-supported solutions. (Critical Thinking & Problem Solving)

Critically evaluate all business opportunities and challenges using a global business perspective. (Global Dimension)

	Consistently act in a professional, ethical, and socially responsible manner, and collaborate effectively in teamwork when required. (Ethics & Social Responsibility)



Gallaudet University

Student Learning Outcomes



The Gallaudet University Student Learning Outcomes can be found through the following link:



https://www.gallaudet.edu/academic-catalog/undergraduate-education/learning-outcomes.html







2