DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS

Business Administration Program Syllabus



						





DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS

Business Administration Program Syllabus



							General Information

							

Course Title:  Senior Capstone II

Course Number:  BUS492-01

Semester:  Fall, 2021

Number of Credits:  3

Instructor Name:  Dr. Qi Wang, PhD
Email:  qi.wang@gallaudet.edu

Phone/VP:  202-651-5648 (V); 202-540-8534 (VP)

Office Hours: MW: 11am-3pm; T: 10am-3pm. Other times by appt via VP @ (202) 540-8534, or 
ZOOM at https://gallaudet.zoom.us/j/3108405425

Class Days/Time/Location:  MW: 10:00-11:20 AM; EMG B02

							

Catalog Description:

This is the second course of the senior capstone series. It is designed for graduating seniors majoring in Accounting, Business Administration, and Risk Management to synthesize, apply, and integrate all business functional knowledge and their major-specific expertise to solve complex problems in a real and virtual business environment. A variety of instructional techniques such as case studies, simulations, team projects, guest speakers, and field trips may be used to deliver an enhanced capstone experience. Through simulations, students will emulate top corporate executives to develop and implement strategy plans and business policies in a competitive, global business environment.

Prerequisites: BUS491; Business department majors only, or permission of the department.



Course Materials—Cengage Unlimited Subscription for one semester

Small Business Management: Launching & Growing Entrepreneurial Ventures, 19th Edition, by Longenecker/Petty/Palich/Hoy; MindTap® Computing, 6-month instant access; ISBN-13: 978-0-357-03929-8; MindTap Course Key: MTPP722QBFH8

MINDTAP Portal Instructions:

Create an account at cengage.com or use your existing account to log in.

Input your Cengage Unlimited Subscription Access Code (purchased at eCampus.com)

Input Course Key to enter the course—BUS492_FL21

							Requirements and Grading

Bison Letter Grade Equivalencies:

The Department of Business grading system is:

93% and Above	A

80 – 82%		B-

67 – 69%		D+

90 – 92%		A-

77 – 79%		C+

60 – 66%		D

87 - 89%		B+

73 – 76%		C

Below 60%		F

83 - 86%		B

70 – 72%		C-







Major Assignments and Grading Policy:  

Requirement 								Percentage of Grade



MindTap eLearning Activities (Assignment, in the Spotlight, Living the Dream)	10%

Class Discussion (Bb)—Contributions 						10%

You Make the Call (1)									10%

Case Study (2)									20%

Practice & Present (1)									10%

Team Term Project—Create a Business Plan for a New Venture			40%



	Assignments & Study/Preparation Guideline and Time Expectations:	

A variety of assignments, designed for students to apply business knowledge and demonstration skills and competency in business functional areas as a senior business student, are assigned weekly. Specifically,

Self-gradable eLearning Activities (chapter assignments, in the spotlight, living the dream) are hosted on the MindTap BUS492_FL portal. Make sure you complete the assignments before the deadlines as they will disappear when the time expires. The estimated time to complete the activities is about 1-2 hours weekly depending on a student’s prior skills.

Class Discussion topics, hosted on the Bb course portal, are assigned for each chapter. The estimated time to complete the activities is about 1-2 hours weekly depending on a student’s prior skills. Your postings in the discussion forums will be reviewed and graded with feedback provided online. You can access the Discussion Board inside Discussion Questions folder on the Bb course portal. Make sure you follow the instructions and post well prepared answers by the deadlines. Specifically:

Each student must 1) post his/her answer to an unanswered question and 2) respond to two peer entries to other questions by the deadlines on Tuesdays & Thursdays, respectively. If another student posts additional question to your entry, you must reply. In short, you need to monitor your posts.

You Make the Call (YMTC) is a critical thinking exercise putting students in the shoes of a small business owner and asks you to make decisions based on the chapter content. The estimated time to complete the assignment is about 2-4 hours for one exercise depending on a student’s prior skills. For this assignment, one YMTC exercise with three situations from a chapter that is most relevant to a student’s major will be assigned. A sample from Chapter 1 is posted on the Bb portal to serve as a model. To earn credit, you must submit a professionally composed written report for the assigned exercise with its three situation descriptions, related questions, and your well thought out answers and submit the file to the Bb by the deadline. For the accounting and finance related exercises, Excel spreadsheet files are required as the supporting documentation.  This assignment will be assessed by DOB Senior Assessment Committee to assess your SLO1, SLO2, SLO3, and SLO4 skills.

Case Study is a critical thinking and problem-solving exercise which asks students to analyze a business and its issues and come up with viable solutions. The estimated time to complete the assignment is about 3-5 hours for each case depending on a student’s prior skills. For this assignment, two cases will be assigned, one case focuses on global business, and one centers on quantitative reasoning and technology skills in Excel. A sample from Chapter 1 is posted on the Bb portal to serve as a model. To earn credit, you must submit a professionally composed written report for each case with the case description, the questions, and your well-conceived answers and submit the file to the Bb by the deadline. For the quantitative reasoning case, an Excel spreadsheet file is required. This assignment will be assessed by DOB Senior Assessment Committee to assess your SLO1, SLO2, SLO3, SLO4, and SLO5 skills

Practice & Present activities require you to research ideas and small business, then present your findings via YouTube video. The estimated time to complete the assignment is about 2-4 hours for each exercise depending on a student’s prior skills. One exercise will be assigned to each student. To earn credit, you must submit a written script with the activity requirements and your findings and/or solutions and the accompanying video presentation with PP slides and submit the files to the Bb by the deadline. This assignment will be assessed by DOB Senior Assessment Committee to determine your ASL communication skills (SLO2)

Team Term Project is a comprehensive project that a team of four students will come up with a business venture idea (think of SharkTank project you did in BUS101), develop a complete business plan, and make a presentation to the DOB faculty (pitching to investors). The estimated time to complete the project is about 2-3 hours per week depending on group collaboration effectiveness. Refer to the project guideline for specifics. Each team must set up a Group Discussion Forum and document team activities and collaboration which will be used to assess your social responsibility and teamwork effort (SLO6). This project will be assessed by DOB Senior Assessment Committee for SLO1, SLO2, SLO3, SLO4, SLO5, and SLO6 by major programs.  

Homework Grading and Policy:



All homework (HW) and assignment must be completed by the due dates to earn full credit. Late submission of HW is subject to the following penalty:

10% deduction of the HW grade for each day the submission is delayed.

After 6 days passing the due date, no credit will be given for the late submission.

Gradesheet maintenance requirement: Students are required to input their assignment scores into the instructor provided gradesheet file. The final grade is automatically calculated after each score input. In this way, students will always know where they stand in their learning progress and adjust their effort in the coursework accordingly. 




														COURSE SCHEDULE

														  Schedule changes will be announced via Bb Course Portal where updated schedule will be posted.



Class Policies:  



Masking Requirements

The university has a mask policy that utilizes three colors: green, yellow and red. Please click on this link to read about the university’s mask policy: Gallaudet University mask policy. 

Under the current Yellow Mask Policy Status, all faculty and students are required to wear masks indoors, including in face-to-face classes that are held indoors. We have ordered a very large supply of clear masks that fit above the nose and under the chin. It takes some time to get used to them but please follow the mask posted mask status.

What Will Happen if People Refuse to Wear a Mask

We expect that most if not all people will respect the indoor mask policy. If a person refuses to wear a mask in class or takes off their mask and does not put it back on, they will be asked to leave the class immediately and meet with their instructor about the incident. The instructor is required to report such incidents to Student Accountability Restorative Practice (SARP) immediately after class with the student’s name and a summary of the incident. SARP will follow up right away with the student. Such incidents may lead to disciplinary action.

Safety on Campus

We are back on campus and the university is fully open. Our administration, staff and faculty have worked hard to make our campus as safe as possible. We have required everyone to be vaccinated or to be approved for a waiver (which requires strict mask-wearing requirements indoors and outdoors). We now require everyone, vaccinated or not, to wear masks indoors as part of DC Health requirements and the Yellow Mask Policy Status. Weekly COVID testing is required for all members of our community, and everyone is required to submit a health screening each time they enter our campus. With all these requirements in place, we are hopeful that we can provide a positive educational experience for our students on campus. In turn, we ask our students to observe safety protocols and to make sensible and healthy decisions for themselves both on and off campus that will protect themselves and others from possible COVID exposure.

There Will be No Virtual Versions of Courses that are Face - to - Face

We all know how important face-to-face engagement is to our learning mission. We understand that there are concerns from students about participating in person. Some students have individually approached their faculty or advisors to ask for virtual versions of face-to-face courses. Faculty teaching in person will not make course content for the semester available asynchronously online or to offer hyflex options (where some students attend in person and others join via zoom).

Student Absences for Quarantine and/or Health Reasons

Students or faculty may become ill during the semester. In these situations, we will follow public health and safety protocols.

Quarantine. A number of students will need to quarantine upon arrival in Washington, DC based on guidelines from the DC Department of Health for unvaccinated or partially vaccinated individuals traveling to the area. Faculty with affected students in their classes, have been asked to work with them on a short-term basis to allow them to complete coursework while quarantining. Students in this situation should notify their instructors directly of their circumstances.

Health absences. Similarly, students may need to miss classes throughout the semester for health reasons. Given that we want any student who is experiencing symptoms of illness to refrain from attending in-person classes, we have asked faculty to be flexible in granting short-term excused absences (i.e., one to two classes). The Office of the Dean of Student Affairs will provide notice of absence for those students who need to take more prolonged absences or undergo quarantine/isolation. Faculty will support students who become ill during the semester as normal. Your instructors will share PowerPoints or other in-class materials electronically, allow for extensions on assignments, and ensure that students’ participation grades are not negatively impacted. Students should be expected to make up for any missed work.

Contact Tracing. The university will continue to test and contact trace for anyone who tests positive for COVID-19 within our community and will notify instructors, support staff, and classmates if an individual was in their presence while potentially infectious. If a student, faculty, or staff member learns that an individual with whom they’ve interacted tested positive but does not receive official notification, they should assume that contact tracing has determined that the interaction took place outside that person’s infectious period. Faculty and staff should direct questions to coronavirus@gallaudet.edu and suspected exposure to contact.tracing@gallaudet.edu.

Gallaudet University Academic Integrity Policy: 

It is the student’s responsibility to familiarize themselves and comply with the Gallaudet University Undergraduate Academic Integrity Policy, which can be found in the Gallaudet University Undergraduate Catalog or on the Gallaudet University website at http://www.gallaudet.edu/academic-catalog/registration-and-policies/undergraduate-policies/academic-integrity.html. Please read the policy in its entirety and comply.  Any violations of academic integrity, such as cheating, plagiarism, fabrication, will result in serious consequences including but not limited to F grade for the assignment or the course, XF grade for the course, suspension from the program or the university.



Gallaudet Undergraduate Academic Calendar

It is the student’s responsibility to familiarize themselves with Gallaudet University’s Academic Calendar with respect to when classes meet and holidays are.  The Academic Calendar can be found at the Gallaudet University website at http://www.gallaudet.edu/registrars-office/academic-calendars/undergraduate-academic-calendar/undergraduate-2015-2016.html



OSWD Academic Accommodation Policy: 

Students who require accommodations need to register with the Office for Students with Disabilities (OSWD) located in SAC 1022 in order to have their status certified and recorded. OSWD will contact the instructors to arrange for accommodation, but only after certification has been determined. No accommodation can be provided prior to authorization by OSWD. For more information about OSWD policy, go to http://www.gallaudet.edu/academic-catalog/registration-and-policies/undergraduate-policies/academic-accommodations-policy.html



ADA Compliance 

For information on your rights under the ADA and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation ACT, please see https://www.gallaudet.edu/af/section-1-general/110-reasonable-accommodation.html



The Ombuds Support:

												If issues arise related to this course, please contact me (Qi.Wang@gallaudet.edu). If you would like the assistance of an impartial third-party regarding a course-related issue you may contact the Office of the Ombuds. The Ombuds is available as a confidential and neutral resource to assist with the informal resolution of conflicts and concerns. The Office is located at Ely Center 113. Videophone: 202.559.5079. E-mail: ombuds@gallaudet.edu. Website: www.gallaudet.edu/ombuds 

												

Class Cancellation or University Closing:

If the university closes for any reason or the instructor unexpectedly miss class, that day’s work will be conducted via Blackboard. Check the announcement section of Blackboard for specific instructions, which will be posted by class time if possible.



Credit Hour Compliance:

This course earns 3 credits; therefore, students will spend 150 minutes in class per week for 15 weeks, resulting in 37.5 hours of instructional time for the semester. Students are expected to spend at least 5 hours per week for a total of 75 hours on outside-of-class preparation (e.g. readings, assignments). These two sums should result in total student engagement time of 112.5 hours for the course. Note that these time allotments are minimums, not maximums.



Statement Regarding Possibility of Syllabus and/or Schedule Change:  

At times, topics shown in this syllabus may be taught in a different sequence, new topics added, and others adjusted. This will ensure the relevancy of the course and enhance your learning.  Please be prepared to be flexible and adjust as this class evolves. All notifications of changes will be done through Blackboard announcements and emails.

Reporting Responsibilities: While I want you to feel comfortable coming to me with issues you may be struggling with or concerns you may be having, please be aware that I have some reporting requirements that are part of my job requirements at Gallaudet University. For example, if you inform me of an issue of sexual harassment, sexual assault, or discrimination I will keep the information as private as I can, but I am required to bring it to the attention of the Title IX Coordinator or EEO/AA office. If you would like to talk to those offices directly, they can be reached by contacting Sharrell McCaskill through VP (202-559-5683) or at her office in College Hall 312 or at the following website: https://www.gallaudet.edu/title-ix-at-gallaudet-university. Additionally, you can also report incidents or complaints to DPS. You can also get support at CAPS (Counseling and Psychological Services), SHS (Student Health Services) and the Ombudsman. Business Law II Syllabus Page 7 of 9 Fall Semester 2020 Another common example is if you are struggling with an issue that may be traumatic or unusual stress. I will likely inform the campus Behavioral Intervention Team (BIT) or CAPS. If you would like to reach out directly to them for assistance, you can contact them at https://www.gallaudet.edu/student-affairs/behavior-intervention-team. Finally, know that I am always willing to listen and give advice if needed.



	

Student Learning Outcomes (SLOs):  

Please see the end of the syllabus for a complete chart of SLOs, critical learning opportunities, assessment methods, and alignment with program and university outcomes as well as those required by the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP).



Student Learning Outcomes (SLOs) and Assessment of Learning: 

This chart shows the primary learning outcomes for this course, the learning opportunities for developing those outcomes, and the tools used to assess those outcomes.  It also shows how the course outcomes align with the outcomes of the Business Administration program and of the university.

BUS492 Student Learning Outcomes

Critical Learning Opportunities

Tools for Assessment & Expected Levels

Business Administration Program SLOs

GU SLOs

Accurately apply fundamental business concepts, models and principles to address hypothetical or real-world business issues. (Common Business Knowledge & Inquiry)

MindTap eLearning Activities (Assignment, in the Spotlight, Living the Dream)

Discussion Forums

80% or better on performance-based assessments 

80% or better on Assignment Checklist

1

3. Critical Thinking (a, b, c, d, e)

Communicate effectively in both American Sign Language and written English in various formats and styles to a variety of audiences in multiple business contexts. (Communication)

You Make the Call

Case Study

Practice & Present

Milestone range of 3-4 on the AAC&U Writing Value Rubrics

Milestone range of 3-4 on the GU ASL Presentation Rubrics

2

2. Bilingualism (b, c, d, e)

Apply technological tools, and statistical and quantitative reasoning skills in analyzing and evaluating numerical information to support evidence-based business decisions. (Quantitative Reasoning & Technological Skills)

You Make the Call

Case Study

Major-Specific Team Term Project—Business Plan

Milestone range of 3-4 on the AAC&U Quantitative Literacy Value Rubrics



3

4. Digital Awareness (a, b, d)



7. Science Literacy (e, g)

Critically assess business problems and develop well-supported solutions. (Critical Thinking & Problem Solving)

You Make the Call

Case Study

Major-Specific Team Term Project—Business Plan

Milestone range of 3-4 on AAC&U Critical Thinking Rubric

4

3. Critical Thinking (a, b, c, d, e)

Critically evaluate all business opportunities and challenges using a global business perspective. (Global Dimension)

You Make the Call

Case Study

Milestone range of 3-4 on AAC&U Global Learning Rubric

5

8. Global Citizenship (a, b, d)

Consistently act in a professional, ethical, and socially responsible manner, and collaborate effectively in teamwork when required. (Ethics & Social Responsibility)

Group assignments

Major-Specific Team Term Project—Business Plan

Interactions with instructors and peers in and outside classroom

DOB Student Code of Conduct

Milestone range of 3-4 on AAC&U Teamwork Rubric 

6

1. Wellness (a, b, c)

5. Ethics (a, b, c, d)



		

Business Administration Program

Student Learning Outcomes

Business Program SLOs AY18-19

Graduates of BS in Business Administration Program will demonstrate competence and learning outcomes in the following six domains: 

	Accurately apply fundamental business concepts, models and principles to address hypothetical or real-world business issues. (Common Business Knowledge & Inquiry)

	Communicate effectively in both American Sign Language and written English in various formats and styles to a variety of audiences in multiple business contexts. (Communication)

	Apply technological tools, and statistical and quantitative reasoning skills in analyzing and evaluating numerical information to support evidence-based business decisions. (Quantitative Reasoning & Technological Skills)

	Critically assess business problems and develop well-supported solutions. (Critical Thinking & Problem Solving)

Critically evaluate all business opportunities and challenges using a global business perspective. (Global Dimension)

	Consistently act in a professional, ethical, and socially responsible manner, and collaborate effectively in teamwork when required. (Ethics & Social Responsibility)



Gallaudet University

Student Learning Outcomes



The Gallaudet University Student Learning Outcomes can be found through the following link:



https://www.gallaudet.edu/academic-catalog/undergraduate-education/learning-outcomes.html